
Introduction
------------

The ongoing “maker movement” is supporting humans’ innate desire to make with their own hands in and out of educational settings (Halverson & Sheridan, ). Making is guided by the constructionist principle of “learning by making,” which suggests that learning is occasioned through constructing tangible and sharable objects in the real world (Charlton & Avramides, ). The act of making can take place outside of formal schooling and can range from engaging in artifact creation with arts and craft materials, woodworking tools, LEGO bricks, and so on. More recently, various technological tools have become more and more accessible in educational contexts. As such, digital making (DM), defined as the hands-on production of programmable artifacts, has emerged as a subset of making activities in schools. As facilitated by the Fourth Industrial Revolution (Demartini & Benussi, ; Ng & Tsang, ), DM has the potential to provide rich learning opportunities for students to develop important Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) concepts and skills through programming and operating with automated machines (Berland & Wilensky, ; Yin et al., ). Nevertheless, the implementation of making tasks, in general, for leveraging K-12 students’ twenty-first century skills is under-practiced and under-researched. In particular, few researchers have investigated the effect of the integration of problem-based learning (PBL) in programming contexts on learners’ development of critical thinking, creativity, communication, and collaboration (4C) skills.

In the last decade, the rise of block-based programming has captured the attention of researchers and educators who study children’s cognitive and psychological development in constructionist environments (Ng & Cui, ; Cui & Ng, ; Richard & Giri, ). This educational phenomenon has been driven by the fact that young children in today’s world will be immersed in operating technological devices (e.g., smartphones, tablet devices, laptops, computers, and robots) as well as programming them to perform certain actions throughout their entire lives. As argued by the third author’s research (Ng & Cui, ; Ng & Ferrara, ; Ng et al., ), the opportunities offered by hands-on making include enabling students to transform problem situations into meaningful solutions by realizing their ideas into tangible artifacts, thereby engaging in learning processes that are both powerful and flexible (Papert, ). Despite the increasing demand on school constructionist learning in general, and DM in particular, pedagogical challenges remain in enriching K-12 student learning.

Particularly, there are different challenges while implementing STEM education in schools. According to Hu and Guo’s () study on the conceptual framework for STEM curriculum design, while STEM education has received international attention and has been recognized as an effective pathway to cultivating the core competencies of twenty-first century skills, current STEM education does not meet the desired outcomes. A key reason for this is in what and how STEM curricula can be effectively implemented in a systematic and structured manner. This point of view is in accordance with the study by Margot and Kettler () concerning teachers’ perceptions of STEM integration in education. The researchers found that a number of barriers, including pedagogical challenges, curriculum challenges, and structural challenges, contributed to the difficulty of implementing STEM education in schools. It has, therefore, been suggested that there is an urgent need to provide teachers with relevant pedagogical support and curricular materials so as to empower them to implement STEM education in practice (Geng et al., ). In general, innovative curricular and instructional design for STEM education is highly desired in STEM-related research.

To fill the gap, the current study reports on the design and implementation of an instruction, that is, problem-based DM, for STEM education. This study is significant in that it proposes problem-based DM as a new pedagogical approach to STEM education, and it examines the impact of such approach on developing students’ 4C skills. Importantly, PBL has been utilized as the basis for and context of DM to support STEM learning (Newman et al., ). Thus, this context builds on previous studies on STEM-rich making, whereby students actively acquire and apply computational thinking concepts and practices for transdisciplinary problem-solving (English, ). Moreover, an emphasis has been placed on the design of authentic and real-life problems aimed to prompt participants to think critically and creatively and to communicate and collaborate with peers in order to negotiate ideas through programming artifacts that demonstrate the problem solutions. In turn, problem-based DM is expected to develop students’ problem-solving competencies and 4C skills, which are considered critical features for young children’s adaptation to twenty-first century ways of living and doing (Charlton & Avramides, ; Gadhamshetty et al., ; Van Laar et al., ).

Although problem-based DM instruction seems promising in promoting student cognitive development, there is insufficient research and educational practices which adopt problem-based DM instruction, especially those which qualitatively investigate students’ STEM-related skill development (Godhe et al., ). Accordingly, this study responds to the urgent need of enhancing research and pedagogical experience for problem-based DM as a viable STEM instruction, through which 4C skills are occasioned and developed. In what follows, we introduce the theoretical foundation of constructionist learning, and elaborate on the notion of problem-based DM, and outline studies related to 4C skills to provide the research background of K-12 problem-based DM activities. These are then followed by stating the research questions posed in the study aimed to characterize students’ 4C skills development in the context of problem-based DM from a qualitative perspective.

Research Background
-------------------

### Constructionism and Digital Making

The theory of constructionism, developed by Seymour Papert (), proposed a situated learning approach in which the external “objects to think with” are regarded as important elements to support the learning process. According to constructionist models, students learn best by making tangible objects, that is “learning by making” (Ke et al., ), a process in which students also create “knowledge structures” cognitively (Piaget, ). Constructionists advocate the importance of tools, media, and context in human development. As argued by Ackermann (), learning takes place spontaneously in the act of making sense of one’s experience and envisioning a better world through technology fluency and integration.

As artifact construction is a focus of constructionism, the use of tools to facilitate this process has been emphasized (e.g., Charlton & Avramides, ; Dohn, ; Ke et al., ; Ng & Cui, ; Ng & Ferrara, ). As such, the development of technological fluency in students and the promotion of learning through designing and sharing are significant aspects of “learning by making” (Papert, ). In terms of the various tools, Papert advocates for computational applications to scaffold constructionist learning activities. For example, researchers have employed different child-oriented programming environments (most notably Scratch and Alice) to scaffold constructionist learning for K-12 students (Cutumisu et al., ). The context of screen-based media allows for personal and flexible making while young children access computational thinking concepts and practices in intuitive and hands-on ways (Weintrop et al., ). Furthermore, some emerging platforms can enable users to participate socially through building networks, expressing ideas, and sharing creations (Fields et al., ). Hence, collaborative and peer learning are at the core of constructionist activities.

This study adopted the novel approach of combining PBL in a programming context to facilitate K-12 students’ 4C skills development. As students engage in PBL, they perceive stronger relevance and connection with the learning materials (Chounta et al., ). Thus, it promotes learners’ positive feelings toward the learning activities, encourages students to participate in the activities, and cultivates their confidence to complete the open-ended tasks (Reeve, ). Recent research has shown positive effects on students’ problem-solving skills in programming contexts. For instance, Akcaoglu () conducted a 10-day game design summer program in which 18 middle school students were initially given problem scenarios to be solved via computer programming. The statistical analysis of participants’ learning outcomes indicated that there were significant improvements in students’ problem-solving skills after attending the program. Similarly, Litts et al. () organized three after-school workshops for 29 youths 10–16 years of age. Within a programming platform, students were encouraged to design a place-based mobile application to share stories and experiences related to their community, thereby increasing social, environmental, and civic engagement. These studies revealed that designing computational artifacts can help participants engage with computational practices and their local communities as a kind of transdisciplinary problem-solving (English, ). Though researchers have reported positive outcomes of adopting problems as a method in programing activities, more attention is warranted in qualitatively examining the instructional design to be adopted, the problems used, and the processes of learning during DM activities.

### 4C Skills

To flourish in the new global economy and participate fully in democratic processes, individuals in the twenty-first century need to have multiple abilities, such as how to search, analyze, and communicate information, solve complex problems collaboratively, and create knowledge with the help of technological products (Griffin & Care, ). Though there are differences among scholars and organizations’ understandings regarding the specific connotations of twenty-first century skills (Van Laar et al., ; Voogt & Roblin, ), the 4C skills have been recognized as the key capacities within the category (Silber-Varod et al., ). These four competencies all involve learners’ cognitive abilities; however, they have different foci (Virtanen & Tynjälä, ). For instance, critical thinking refers to the ability to think about problems clearly and rationally to form a judgment. It requires thinking from a new perspective and making connections across different subjects and disciplines (Hu et al., ). Creativity suggests using innovative approaches to finish a task, find a solution, or design an invention (Ozkan & Topsakal, ). Being creative is critical to competitiveness in the technological age. Communication advocates sharing information, such as thoughts, questions, ideas, or solutions, with other people (Owens & Hite, ). Effective communication is the guarantee for any success inside the classroom or anywhere else. Collaboration requires that people work together, using their combined talent, expertise, and intelligence to attain a common goal (Lin et al., ). As the world becomes more and more interconnected, the importance of collaboration is expected to increase in the future (Griffin et al., ).

Fundamentally, the 4C skills are transferable across different contexts, including problem-solving and computational practices. Charlton and Avramides () organized a two-day mini-workshop with 15 secondary students who were new to programming. The Internet of Things was adopted to facilitate the Smart City project, in which learners needed to solve physical computing problems while building their electrical artifacts. Researchers reported that students practiced all 4C skills through participating in these learning activities. Gadhamshetty et al. () conducted a study with 600 sophomore students with a STEM discipline background. The participants registered in a 15-week engineering design course, in which they could be involved in a variety of hands-on experiences to investigate different problems with renewable energy technology. Students’ feedback indicated positive effects of the task in improving students’ communication and teamwork skills. Additionally, Clark and Mahboobin () investigated 80 undergraduate students who were having learning difficulties in solving open-ended biosignal laboratory problems while designing programming tasks. The students’ written communication of the technical report improved significantly across the three-semester investigation with the problem-solving experience.

### Microgenetic Learning Analysis

Microgenetic learning analysis (MLA) is a subgenre of microgenetic study and is a qualitative method to analyze learning (Fazio & Siegler, ; Parnafes & diSessa, ). It has been used both in promoting theory development and in establishing useful and empirical results regarding theory adoptions. Essentially, there are three main characteristics of MLA. The emphasis on explaining phenomenon or processes is a primary one; it aims to develop or improve various theories about learning. Moreover, MLA analysis accounts for moment-by-moment explanations of learning practice within learning contexts. Further, this approach takes open consideration of relevant aspects of data, such as the learning context, individual characteristics, learning processes, and features of the learning event.

Researchers have adopted MLA approach in their studies to closely examine the process of learning (Eberbach et al., ; Martin-Beltrán, ; Swanson & Collins, ). For example, Eberbach et al. () employed the MLA method to explain how knowledge develops over time. An analysis was performed on 70 middle school students’ drawings of aquatic environments collected prior to, during, and after a technology-rich instructional intervention. Eventually, the researchers revealed how students developed a more coherent understanding of aquatic ecosystems over a prolonged period of time in a classroom setting. Besides, Swanson and Collins () used MLA to investigate how failure is productive in the creative process with 8th grade students. They analyzed the transcript of the whole class discussion about why a glass of cold milk warmed quickly at first and then more slowly as it approached room temperature. Through the MLA analysis, the students’ productive ideas were identified and the way that these ideas were transformed over the course of the discussion was investigated. Based on the previous studies, the current study utilized MLA from qualitative, interpretive, and case-study perspectives in a similar manner.

In summary, researchers have argued for the integration of PBL into programming activities; however, qualitative studies in offering possible explanations and documenting the processes of student learning in problem-based DM activities are relatively scarce. More empirical evidence is needed in terms of how problem-based DM develops students’ competence, including the processes by which 4C skills are formed. In response, this paper adopts a case study approach to investigate the following research questions: (a) What 4C skills does problem-based DM instruction occasion in K-12 students? (b) How are 4C skills developed with problem-based DM in K-12 students?

Methodology
-----------

### Research Design and Context

A case study with qualitative data sources was adopted as the research design to answer the research questions regarding students’ 4C skills development. The methodology of qualitative study allows researchers to examine students’ behavior through fine-grained descriptions of learning in problem-based DM contexts, as informed by MLA approach (Parnafes & diSessa, ). Rather than testing theories, this type of analysis allows for developing well-grounded theory about 4C skills development, of which the choice of case study is appropriate—not for drawing out generalities, but for displaying incidental characteristics of the design of problem-based DM that may be important in developing students’ 4C skills. According to Parnafes and diSessa (), case studies complement in-depth analysis of learning “given the need for extended, open, and careful consideration of data” (p. 7). Suitable for investigations such as ours, case studies can be used to inform real-world, sociocultural behaviors (e.g., classroom learning), which are too diverse and uncontrolled for the methods used in laboratory studies. Essentially, we projected that the empirical results of this study can inform current debates about the extent of scaffolding pedagogy in problem-solving as well as making activities (Godhe et al., ).

The context of the study is an online enrichment course entitled Digital Making Camp, which aims to facilitate students’ development of problem-solving skills and computer science concepts while engaging in a series of designed problem-based DM activities. A team of education researchers, local education experts, and in-service teachers worked together to design the sequences of activities and classroom-based interventions for this collaborative program. Scholars have proposed that this interdisciplinary collaboration can increase the possibilities to apply the research results to real classrooms and identify how and why certain situations work (Stylianides & Stylianides, ).

### Participants and Procedures

The participants comprised 62 students (from 10–14 years of age) from the upper elementary and lower secondary school levels. They were registered members of the Advanced Learning division of a government-subsidized institution in Hong Kong. Students were assigned to two DM camps (n= 30 andn= 32, respectively). Filtered by the attendance criteria of attending at least 60% of the sessions, 54 participants (44 males, 10 females) were identified as the study participants. For research purposes, the data collected from these screened participants were analyzed in this study.

Five 2-h lessons (L1–5) were conducted on five consecutive Saturdays via the online video-conferencing platform Zoom (). Different themes were included in the camp sessions to facilitate students’ problem-based DM. For instance, the first lesson was to introduce Scratch to students by having them design a digital game. The next three lessons focused on solving problems while learning new programming concepts, such as variables, loops, and recursion. The themes of the authentic problems were money saving, dice rolling, and fractal drawing, respectively. The final lesson was arranged for students to present their projects. The topics of the five lessons are shown in Table .

Table 1 Summary of DM camp activities

Each lesson consisted of two parts, namely, teacher-centered whole-class instructions and student-centered problem-solving in Zoom’s breakout rooms. The camp teachers would set up contexts for the problems and prepare students with the essential prerequisite programming knowledge. Additionally, they would complete some tasks with Scratch about the teacher’s demonstration during the whole-class instruction. During the breakout room activities, students were given adequate time to solve the problems by using the programming concepts and techniques they had learned. In each breakout room, students were encouraged to communicate with peers, and a teaching assistant was available to provide the necessary assistance to the learners.

### Data Collection, Selection, and Analysis

Using case study methodology, and regarding the DM program as one case, we collected and triangulated data from multiple channels in order to provide detailed descriptions of students’ learning experience during the teaching intervention. We first identify significant moment from our data sources; then, we compare data from other sources to confirm and support the observation. As the camp was conducted entirely online, students’ numerical/textual responses were facilitated and stored via a web-based platform, Desmos; the actual learning activities and processes of problem-solving via Scratch in the main meeting and breakout rooms, respectively, were video recorded. Besides, classroom field notes that focused on the learning activities as well as the students’ interactions with their peers and the teaching facilitators were taken by the researchers. In addition, post-camp interviews were conducted with student participants who were selected for their active participation in the learning activities. The semi-structured interview questions were designed by the research team and then confirmed by the instructor. The questions prompted the students to recall their learning experience in the DM camp. Sample questions include the following: How did you get the idea for your project? How did you get started making your project? What happened when you got stuck? How did you solve this problem? What was it like working on this problem? How did you feel about this unit? We conducted open and extended consideration of all sources of data to discover and characterize learners’ 4C skills development.

A research team composed of practitioners of mathematics and STEM education worked collaboratively to manage, detect, conceptualize, and report the data. After the DM camp, we conducted a preliminary treatment of the collected data by archiving the documents. Students’ attendance, homework completion situations, immediate responses on Desmos, and researchers’ classroom field notes were recorded chronologically in a spreadsheet. Then, we revisited camp sessions together by watching the videos and referring to the classroom field notes iteratively. During the detection process, we would stop the video for discussion if any researcher proposed that the episode, which referred to a segment of the video, was reflective of the student’s (or students’) 4C skills development. The whole team would rewatch the video and select the episode only if a general agreement about the scenario being a demonstration of students’ 4C skills was reached. Depending on the length of the actions or utterances that took place, the duration of the segments that were extracted for further analysis varied in the study. After this collaborative knowledge production stage, we proceeded to analyze the selected data.

The MLA approach, which is an inductive analytic method, was employed to guide the data analysis (Parnafes & diSessa, ). The analysis took its reference from an existing learning theory—constructionism—and improved on it by (a) adapting it to a new context, the use of a problem-based DM environment, and (b) elaborating the four capabilities while retaining core elements of the original theory. In addition, the researchers focused on fine-grained detail which is a standard practice of MLA. In other words, the analysis of data was intended to explain students’ behaviors in a moment-by-moment manner and corresponding their actions in the specific learning context of problem-based DM. The close examination of short segments (e.g., two to three minutes) of video data was appropriate for such an analysis, as it revealed relevant details to be accounted for and provided opportunities for characterizing 4C skills development. Furthermore, the MLA involved open consideration of data inductively. Researchers regarded students’ verbal language, as well as their facial expressions and gestures (if available), as important dimensions with which to study the development of 4C skills in problem-based DM environments. Especially, the multimodal data (facial expressions and gestures, etc.) were analyzed as a research team upon discussions and according to experience based on the researchers’ experience of multimodal discourse analysis (Ng, ).

Results
-------

This section reports on the kinds of 4C skills supported by problem-based DM instruction and how they were facilitated in the problem-based DM environment. In particular, the analyses of results yielded new characterizations regarding the students’ critical thinking (in the form of critical modeling), and creativity (in the form of creative explorations, creative solutions, and creative expressions) as well as communication and collaboration (in the form of communicative scaffolding and collaborative debugging). In each of the following subsections, we present representative episodes from the two DM camps to detail students’ 4C practices as situated in the designed problem-based DM activities.

### Development of Critical Thinking in the Form of Critical Modeling and Critical Data Handling

We characterized two ways in which critical thinking was developed during problem-based DM. First, we observed that the students demonstratedcritical modeling—a form of critical thinking that students performed while questioning about the models used for problem-solving—in the problem of Ken and Carrie’s savings (e.g., L2). Since Carrie’s saving plan was relatively more complicated than that of Ken, modeling became useful to determine Carrie’s deposit and balance in solving this problem. During the whole-class instruction, the instructor prompted the students to calculate Carrie’s first four deposits (e.g., 3, 6, 12, 24) and balance (e.g., 3, 9, 21, 45) by hand. This was intended for the students to make sense of the problem situation as well as to use the set of values to check their programming codes when solving the problem in Scratch. Further, the instructor proposed an incorrect model, that is, “set Carrie’s balance = Carrie’s balance × 2,” and asked students to comment on it. We observed that some students critically examined the codes, noting that the output for Carrie was inconsistent with what they had calculated by hand. The following transcript demonstrates their reaction:

Table 2 [60:33–61:35] (Note: “A, B,... D” denote students)

In the above transcript, the students were challenged by a modeling situation. Though they had yet to find a solution to the problem, the students critically reflected upon different ways to model the situation. For example, D223 critiqued the proposed model by making use of what he had done previously (Turn 2). This allowed him to compare his own model with the model as shown by the proposed programming codes to determine which was incorrect (Turn 2). Once the students began to suspect the result of the computer was wrong, they further checked the codes and explained why they thought the programmable model was problematic (Turns 2 to 4). As a result of theircritical modeling, the students were able to make informed judgments about the modeling method proposed by the instructor.

In addition, the problem-based DM environment occasioned critical reflections on the simulated data, as observed in L3 (the problem of dice rolling). This was another instance in which the students advanced their critical thinking. In this case, through engaging withcritical data handling—the act of judging or criticizing the data generated by the programmed device—while solving problems related to random events. To accomplish the task, the students needed to create a simulation for the random event of rolling six dice at once. First, the students were guided to observe and record the sum of rolling six dice in ten rolls. Then, they were challenged by the instructor to observe if there were any patterns in terms of the data obtained, namely the distribution of outcomes for obtaining the sum of six dice upon simulating the event. We characterized the students’critical data handlingin a spontaneous student-initiated discussion that unfolded regarding the observed results, as follows:

Table 3 [35:06–47:43] (Note: “A, B,... E” denote students)

When using their program to generate random numbers thus simulating dice rolling, the students wondered if the computer random number function was “fake” (Turns 5 and 6) and “not truly random” (Turn 12). They used the data simulated as evidence to support their stance (Turns 7 to 10). This was because they found that some outcomes conflicted with their common-sense expectations: if the numbers were generated randomly, certain numbers should not appear more frequently than others (Turns 7, 9, and 10), nor less frequently than others (Turn 8), nor should there be patterns pertaining to the number list (Turn 10). By recognizing these differences, the students were spontaneously questioning the computer system. The dice rolling problem prompted the students’ critical thinking by connecting their daily experience, and authentic practice of data handling, with the experimental probability.

By highlighting the episodes as shown in Tables and above, we demonstrated how PBL, together with the DM environment, could occasion the students’ critical thinking. In both problems, DM supported the students in creating and exploring their models, as well as in generating and extrapolating data effortlessly. Rather than thinking about the problems in an abstract sense, the students made use of the programming environment to model the bank balance and to simulate dice rolling, respectively, in dynamic ways. This allowed them to receive immediate feedback from the programs about their models and simulations and to check them intuitively. When differences between the computing method and their intuitive thinking were experienced, the students not only critiqued the correctness of the models or data generated but also looked for reasons to justify their findings. Two features of problem-based DM, namely, goal-oriented tasks (i.e., modeling) and instant data output from the models, cultivated students’ critical thinking development. Given that the block-based programming environment allowed the students to express and realize their thinking onscreen, the students could explore different models with relative ease. As a result, the students seemed to recognize the possibility of incorrect models being created. This was facilitated in part by the instructor’s prompts to reflect on and discuss the models created.

### Development of Creativity in the Form of Creative Exploration, Creative Solution, and Creative Expression

Throughout the camps, the students demonstrated creativity in three forms. First, our initial characterization suggests that the students engaged increative exploration—adopting creative methods to explore different outcomes or outputs—while solving problems in L4 (i.e., fractal geometry). Specifically, having gained some basic knowledge about functions and parameters, the students were able to explore parameter settings outside of the problem situation to create new artifacts. This shows that they not only attempted to solve the problems at hand but also extended their thinking creatively to generate new artifacts. One example came from student E231’s experience of drawing the Sierpinski triangle in Scratch. After successfully programming a Sierpinski triangle with three levels, the student realized that the number of repetitions and the degree of turn would determine the shape of the drawing (Fig. a). Therefore, the student began to change the parameters to explore different outcomes. As shown in Fig. b, he first changed the original triangle to a square by setting the repetition to four times and the degree of turn to 90° (Fig. b). Later, he wanted to try the pentagon, but his attempt brought some unexpected challenges for him because he had mistakenly input the degree of turn as 108°. Therefore, his program output was different from what he had expected (Fig. c). After some trial and error approaches, he succeeded in making his program draw what he called a “Sierpinski pentagon” (Fig. d). While trying to vary the other parameter by changing the repetition to 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10, respectively, he discovered that the angle turn could be found by the code “360 ÷n,” wherenrepresented the number of repetitions. This was an instance in which the student made use ofcreative explorationto generalize some patterns that were observed, which helped him generate more fractal figures.

Fig. 1

a–d Fractal figures created by student E231 through creative exploration

Second, as the nature of the camp was focused on problem-based DM, we observed that the students did propose variouscreative solutionsfor certain problems presented during the camp. Importantly, some of these solutions had not been anticipated by the research team, which further demonstrated the creativity of the students. For example, when dealing with the problem presented in L2 (i.e., the problem of Ken and Carrie’s savings), they demonstrated up to six strategies for solving the two-part problem. The most significant was the part in which the students had to deal with two different saving plans for the problem: in one, the deposit was made every day, and in the other, the deposit was made every weekend. We observed that the students developed three approaches to model these two situations: (1) they used different keys to model the changing of days manually (e.g., press “d” for any day, press “w” for the weekend), (2) they conceptualized seven days as a cycle and utilized two “repeat” cycles to model the process (e.g., repeat seven times to deposit every day and two times to deposit on weekends, respectively), and (3) they created a new deposit variable to serve as a counter for which day of the week the deposit was made, while precisely performing the 7-day cycle (e.g., variable “day of the week”).

Third, the students performedcreative expressionsfor their money-saving problem as facilitated by the DM environment (as shown in Fig. a–d). For instance, the screenshots shown in Fig. a, b illustrate student A202’s expressions through storytelling. In particular, he included the problem introduction, instructions on how to use the program he designed, and some simple animations for depicting new deposits. The program contained up to five different sets of images for storytelling, which ultimately expressed the results of saving from two different deposit approaches (i.e., every day or every weekend). On the other hand, student A203 used a different way to tell the story, which was equally creative since both students were not instructed to do so when solving the problem (Fig. c, d). Besides also using two characters to represent Ken and Carrie, his design highlighted two more aspects: the amount of deposit to be reported by the characters, and the changing of color of background when Carrie’s amount becomes greater than Ken’s.

Fig. 2

a–d Two students’ creative expressions for the problem of Ken and Carrie’s saving

The highlighted abovementioned examples suggest that students’ creativity in the form ofcreative exploration,creative solution, andcreative expressionwas occasioned successfully in a problem-based DM environment. These positive findings may have been due to the automation afforded by DM, aspects of PBL, and the openness of the instructional design. For instance, the problem-based DM environment provides opportunities for students to explore as many designs as they like effortlessly and effectively (e.g., by changing parameters and receiving instant outcomes). In addition, the PBL contexts made students the designers as well as problem-solvers simultaneously. This dual identity not only kept students engaged in the learning tasks, but also provided space for divergent thinking to propose different solutions to the problems that were ill-structured and open-ended. Also, the problem-based DM environment allowed the students to design their artifacts freely by adopting any tools or materials from Scratch and its online community. Finally, the students were encouraged by the instructor to adopt different ways to solve the problems and express their solutions instead of merely reporting the answers to the questions. This caused the students’ creativity development, as evident by the students’ artifacts, which utilized different representations and storytelling strategies. It is also worth noting that the problems were both cognitively demanding and relevant to their life experience, which were important for meeting competence and relatedness needs.

### Development of Communication and Collaboration in the Form of Communicative Scaffolding and Collaborative Debugging

During the last session, the students presented an artifact of their designs as the main task of the session. The two most popular topics chosen by the students to share were drawing geometrical figures in Scratch and designing games. We presented two examples in this section to illustrate how students communicated and collaborated in the problem-based DM environment.

During the camp, the students frequently communicated with the instructors and other students about programming and problem-solving techniques. Among these, we determined one type of communication,communicative scaffolding, to be highly relevant in the problem-based DM environment. We characterized these moments as opportunities for scaffolding new insights as offered by two or more students while mutually engaging in the problem-based DM. For instance,communicative scaffoldingwas observed in the last session when student E231 was presenting his fractal geometry drawing—a flower composed of decagons, as shown in Fig. a. During his presentation, other students suggested that he change the number of sides and angles to make more exciting new drawings (Fig. b). As a result of their suggestions and the corresponding changes he made, they described the new figure as not only a “flower,” but also a “window grille,” “black hole,” and “carpet.” From observing their tone and facial expression, we found that the students enjoyed the process of exploring the unknown designs and were excited to see the outcomes. Importantly, this process was a collective effort of creation, scaffolded by individual students’ ideas of changing a certain parameter of the designer’s program. In another example, E226 presented a colorful Sierpinski triangle (Fig. c). After he presented his original work, his peers suggested that he change the color settings in Scratch (e.g., change color by 5, 1, 100, etc.; Fig. d). This created a work in progress through discussing which setting would look more beautiful: “If you change color by 1, it would change gradually rather than a sudden change, make it look better” (student B212), and “I don’t like that if one triangle has one color and different triangles have different colors” (student B208).

Fig. 3

a–b Transforming a “flower” into a “black hole” through communicative scaffolding; c an improved version of the Sierpinski triangle with color gradient; d students discussing how to enhance a dodging game

Anothercollaborative scaffoldingexample came from a dodging game designed by student A204. After sharing his work, other students made suggestions to further improve the game. During this time, multiple students were talking at the same time in Zoom (therefore, it was not possible to trace the speakers): “I think we can add some rewards for the player to earn besides dodging the flames”; “I think we can add more backgrounds, or when the players achieve certain scores, we change the background so that we could have a better gaming experience”; and “Yes. I think both suggestions are good. I also suggest adding something like a potion for the player to get and recover.” Thus, the students communicated their ideas toward the betterment of other students’ projects.

Besides communicative scaffolding, the students were engaged incollaborative debuggingpractices in the sense that they offered help to their peers to debug problems in each other’s programs. As follows, we illustrate one such episode when student D119 was presenting her car racing game. After watching the game unfold in D119’s presentation, student A101 found a bug in the game: if the player were to move the car backward, it would touch the goal line immediately, which would inadvertently signal that the player has won. Several students then discussed how to fix the bug. After a conversation that took 2 min, they came to a solution, which was to add another line next to the original goal line to detect the order of the lines to be crossed first, and hence judge the racing direction. With such an added artifact, if the player moved the car backward, the car would touch the lines in the wrong order, and the game would end by disqualifying the player.

These results regarding the students’ communicative scaffolding and collaborative debugging suggest that the problem-based DM environment could occasion students’ development in communication and collaboration when given the opportunity. We noted that other than the final session in which the students were actively presenting their artifacts, there were less frequent communication and collaboration among students. When given such opportunities to share, the students were generally enthusiastic about communicating their ideas and working on them collaboratively. The fact that the students could check and revise their programs conveniently in the DM environment might have contributed to their active involvement in this regard. An interesting phenomenon was that it was not always feasible to separate the students’ communication and collaboration in the results, as they were often scaffolding and debugging at the same time.

Discussion
----------

The problem-based DM activities reported in this study were designed for 4C skills development. In this section, we discuss further the potential of problem-based DM in occasioning each skill development. In addition, we propose three practical suggestions for educational practitioners and instructional designers, as well as implications for STEM and maker education as informed by the results of the study.

As shown in the results, the students demonstratedcritical modelingandcritical data handlingas developed in the problem-based DM environment. This finding is consistent with the study of Charlton and Avramides (), who argued that infusing problems in DM can develop students’ critical thinking skills. The significance for this study is that we characterize the students’ critical thinking development qualitatively by the way they understood the modeling and data handling scenarios from their own perspectives, put forward different opinions, or even challenged existing conceptions when differences between their experience and the computer outcomes were realized. As with previous studies (Hu et al., ), the prompting of questions encouraged the students to evaluate their ideas and better develop their critical thinking skills. Moreover, the block-based programming environment enabled the students to collect and check for evidence to support their arguments carefully and thoughtfully. This made effective computing accessible so that students could process different strategies to arrive at temporary models and simulations. During this process, theircritical modelingandcritical data handlingwas consolidated.

Regarding the students’ creativity development in problem-based DM contexts, the results were encouraging in the sense that the students demonstrated a variety of creative behaviors, that is,creative explorations,creative solutions, andcreative expressions. These findings not only highlighted the potential of using problem-based DM activities to occasion students’ creativity (Charlton & Avramides, ), but also identified the kinds of activities for leveraging different aspects of creativity. As was evidenced in the study, the drawing activity was effective for occasioning the students to be creative in the form of creative explorations, while open problems encouraged students to devise solutions creatively and to realize their solutions through creative expressions. We suggest that the need to feel connected and become familiar with the problem context is important for students to develop their creativity—by initially putting their new ideas into practice and then applying divergent thinking in the solutions (Carbonell-Carrera et al., ).

In terms of the remaining skills, that is, communication and collaboration, the results of this study point to an observed interplay between the two skills. On one hand, the problem-based DM environment facilitated students’communicative scaffoldingof ideas. This finding is supported by studies which suggested that PBL could cultivate communication skills from both oral and written perspectives (Clark & Mahboobin, ; Gadhamshetty et al., ). It also implies that communication skills could be developed in a social context when students are able to share their ideas with other people (Owens & Hite, ). On the other hand, the students were able to actively performcollaborative debuggingduring the last session of the camp. As revealed by Gadhamshetty et al. (), problem-solving tasks can improve students’ teamwork skills. Particularly, problem-based DM tasks occasioned students to inquire about each other’s designs and debug each other’s programs, as their collaboration received immediate feedback from the computing environment, Scratch. As such, it was very convenient for the students to engage in the cycle of “discussion—action—feedback—revision.” A plausible explanation for the students’ development in communication and collaboration during problem-based DM is the students’ psychological need satisfaction from relatedness (Ryan & Deci, ). The DM activities could be catalyzed by the presence of the Scratch community of practice, which values the practice of sharing by students with diverse levels of experience.

In response to the research gap that innovative STEM pedagogy for promoting cognitive skills is highly desired in STEM-related research (Hu & Guo, ; Margot & Kettler, ), this study proposed problem-based DM as a possible instructional design for STEM education. The feasibilities of adopting problem-based DM instruction were evidenced by the outcomes of students’ 4C skills development. As shown in the study, the students’ problem-solving skills improved, which was facilitated by the problems’ ill-structured characteristics which encouraged students to think critically and solve the problems in multiple ways. In terms of technological literacy, the students used Scratch’s feature to instantly simulate problems, thereby developing their own ideas and even challenging existing systems. Besides, the problem-based DM instruction occasioned the students to explore and express themselves creatively through experimentation as a form of scientific inquiry and applying mathematical concepts such as probability and algebra (Authors, , ). Hence, the study supported problem-based DM as an integrated STEM pedagogy, through which scientific inquiry, technological literacy, engineering design, and mathematical thinking are demonstrated (Kelley & Knowles, ). Finally, the problem-based context was instrumental for facilitating students’ integrated STEM learning, for it serves as a boundary object connecting the STEM communities to co-build a shared understanding. Concurring with Leung (), problem-based DM can be considered a boundary-crossing pedagogy, featuring problem-solving, inquiry-based learning, and modeling among other boundary objects (Star & Griesemer, ) as potential for STEM teaching and learning. It also motivated them to build connections with the learning objects and their peers. To this end, the diverse technical resources brought forward by the Scratch interface and the Scratch community supported students’ problem-solving communicatively and collaboratively.

In summary, the designed problem-based DM activities were considered to cultivate 4C skills development from a qualitative perspective. The MLA method as a form of analysis provided fine-grained descriptions of how students develop programming knowledge and problem-solving practices in conjunction with 4C skills during the problem-based DM activities. In response to the recommendation of Honey et al. () to promote student development with STEM-related practices, this study is a case of highlighting 4C skills as significant outcomes of problem-based DM activities. In addition, the empirical findings about student learning will contribute toward teacher professional development programs on the kinds of problems and instructions to be offered problem-based DM activities, especially given the well-documented issue regarding lack of teacher expertise for integrating programming in K-12 education.

Conclusion, Limitations, and Future Directions
----------------------------------------------

In conclusion, this study advocated for contextualizing programming learning in problem-based DM environments for developing students’ programming-related skills and practices, as well as occasioning students’ 4C skills development. Though this study has provided qualitative evidence that students’critical modeling,critical data handling,creative explorations,creative solutions,creative expressions,communicative scaffolding, andcollaborative debuggingpractices could be developed in a problem-based DM environment, more investigations validating these findings quantitatively are desirable. For example, a potential line of research could be to extend the current study by evaluating whether students’ 4C skills evidence any improvement after participating in the problem-based DM activities. Besides, the current study is a case of pinpointing some exemplars to demonstrate students’ 4C skills development with the problem-based DM instruction, in response to the qualitative research questions posed. In other words, we did not intend to investigate the number of student participants who showed 4C skills development. Future studies may use quantitative scales to investigate the extent and level to which the participants developed their 4C skills under the DM and PBL environments. The findings in this study could also inform more research on students’ development with other programming tools (e.g., screen-based programming language with programmable electronics, such as Arduino) and on other skills (e.g., cognitive and non-cognitive). Future research could consider conducting longitudinal studies to examine the long-term effects of the problem-based DM instructional approach on students’ 4C skills development.

