

1 Introduction
--------------

All-solid-state lithium batteries (ASSLBs) using lithium metal anode and solid-state electrolytes (SSEs) have drawn significant interest due to their improved safety and feasible energy densities. Among types of SSEs, sulfides that exhibit the ductile mechanical property and highest ionic conductivity (1–10 mS cm−1) have been identified as one of the most promising candidates.

Generally, sulfide SSEs can be divided into two categories: the high-valence-metal-element-free (marked as HVMEF, e.g., Li6PS5Cl, Li3PS4and Li7P3S11) and the high-valence-metal-element-containing category (marked as HVMEC, e.g., Li10GeP2S12, Li4GeS4and Li3SbS4). A solid-electrolyte interphase (SEI) mainly composed of inorganic salt, e.g., Li2S, Li3P, and LiX (X = Cl, Br, I), would be formed after side reactions between HVMEF-SSEs and Li metal (Figure ). The formed ionic conductive but electrical insulating SEI can ensure smooth Li+ ion transport and suppress further side reactions at the interface. Despite the chemical-stable anode-SSE interface, most ASSLBs with HVMEF-SSEs are restricted by lithium dendrite growth even at low current densities below 0.1 mA cm−2 due to the physical mismatched Li/SSE interface and the defects or electronic conductivity along the grain boundary of SSEs. As for HVMEC-SSEs (Figure ), the potential reaction between the containing high-valence metal element and Li metal anode would result in the formation of a mixed electronic-ionic-conductive interface (MCI). For example, it was reported that the generated Ge or Li-Ge phases between Li metal and Li10GeP2S12(LGePS) locally increase the electronic conductivity of SEI and lead to continuous decomposition of bulk SSE. As a result, ASSLBs failed as the battery over-potential rapidly ramped up.

Figure 1

Schematic diagram of interface evolution between Li anode and sulfide SSEs. a) The interface at HVMEF-SSE, demonstrates a cell failure by a short circuit. b) The interface at HVMEC-SSE, shows a cell failure by uncontrollable polarization ramping up. c) The hierarchy of interface stabilities at dynamically stable architecture, exhibiting dendrite inhibition by Li alloying process and self-limiting polarization by electron confinement.

Tremendous efforts have been made to address the failure issues involving: 1) building artificial Li metal protective layers, such as poly(propylene carbonate) and nano-Al2O3, 2) doping the bulk SSEs with functional species, like LiF, LiNO3and Bi2O3, and 3) using Li─In, Li─Al or other Li-alloys instead of pure Li metal anode. These strategies can solve the problems to a certain extent. Nevertheless, the drawbacks including the difficulty in achieving a uniform protective layer, the process complexity of SSE doping, and the lower energy density due to the sacrifice of output voltage when Li-alloy anode is adopted, have extremely hindered their practical application.

Multilayer electrolyte architecture gives new insights into building ASSLBs because it allows to design of a hierarchy of interface stabilities in a simple casting process. In the multilayer design, plenty of Li-compatible SSEs, such as Li5.6PS4.6I1.4, Li6PS5Cl (LPSCl), and 70%Li2S-29%P2S5-1%P2O5have been introduced as the superficial SSE layer at the anode side to stabilize the electrode polarization. On the basis of using a Li5.5PS4.5Cl1.5as superficial layer, very recently, Li Xin's group put forward a novel sandwich-type electrolyte architecture inNatureby the structure of Li5.5PS4.5Cl1.5||LGePS||Li5.5PS4.5Cl1.5. They proposed that the LGePS interlayer could be decomposed to form moderately reduced Ge species rather than Ge metal in favor of a huge external pressure of 250 MPa. The mechanical well-constrained decomposition could serve as an expansion screw to fill any cracks at the contact front of Li dendrite and LGePS, inhibiting the dendrite penetration. The structural innovation highlighted the dendrite suppression role of interlayer sulfide SSE and enabled the Li-Li symmetric cell to achieve unprecedented stable operation for 1800 h at 0.25 mA cm−2. However, the multilayer design still exists critical issues to be addressed: 1) Can we eliminate the dendrite penetration without using a high-cost huge cycling pressure? And in this case, what will be the mechanism to inhibit dendrite? 2) Is there any other more viable interlayer materials instead of the expensive LGePS (Ge: ≈1300 USD kg−1)? 3) How to preserve the hierarchy of interface stabilities, that is to ensure the electrode polarization long-term steady while achieving dendrite-free?

Here, we present a universal dynamically stable SSE design, in which HVMEC-SSE is sandwiched between chemical-stable HVMEF-SSE for Li dendrite inhibition and polarization stabilization. The dendrite prohibition mechanism of the multilayer architecture at low cycling pressure is originally revealed: Li whiskers which grow out from the HVMEF-SSE layer cause the HVMEC-SSE interface to decompose and produce metal. After a quick alloying reaction with these metal species, Li whiskers are swallowed promptly and can no longer penetrate (Figure ). We also highlight that the microstructure of decompositions at HVMEC-SSE interlayer interface determines the long-term polarization stability. The generated abundant Li2S product is able to block electron transport between Li whisker and HVMEC-SSE, limiting excess decomposition. We report that the solid-phase synthesized Li10SnP2S12(LSnPS, Sn: ≈35 USD kg−1) is superexcellent as the economical interlayer to effectively inhibit dendrite even at a huge current density of 3 mA cm−2 and preserve the long-term steady polarization. Ultimately, by using the LPSCl||LSnPS||LPSCl dynamically stable SSE architecture, ASSLBs with single-crystal LiNi0.8Co0.1Mn0.1O2(SNCM811) cathode achieved 75.3% retention after 600 cycles at 1C (1C–0.95 mA cm−2) under a low cycling pressure of 15 MPa.

2 Results and Discussion
------------------------

### 2.1 Design of the Dendrite-Inhibiting Dynamically Stable Sulfide Electrolyte

To ensure the universality and confidence of the research, abundant commercially available SSEs covering the most representative HVMEF-SSEs (LPSCl, Li7P3S11,and Li3PS4) and HVMEC-SSE (LGePS) were studied in this work. The Li3PS4material was mixed with LiI, which is a widespread method to improve its ionic conductivity and interfacial compatibility with Li metal. The phase purity of the purchased SSEs was all verified by X-ray diffraction (XRD) measurements (Figure , Supporting Information). In view of constructing SSEs by cheap and environmentally friendly raw materials, we also synthesized the HVMEC-SSEs with the Sn-containing unit instead of the common Ge or Sb. The LSnPS SSE and Li4SnS4(LSnS) SSE were synthesized by solid-phase routes as the previous reports. Low-speed scan XRD analysis and the corresponding Rietveld refinements of the two SSEs were conducted (Figure ), demonstrating the belongingPnma(LSnS) andP42/nmc(LSnPS) space group as well as their detailed crystalline information (Table , Supporting Information). The judgment factors (RwpandRp) are all below 5%, illustrating the two SSEs have the correct phases. The room temperature ionic conductivity of all the single SSEs is shown in Table (Supporting Information).

Figure 2

The dendrite inhibiting ability of the dynamically stable SSE architecture. a,b) XRD patterns and the corresponding Rietveld refinements of a) LSnPS and b) LSnS electrolyte. c) The life span comparison of Li||Li symmetric cell at 0.1 mA cm−2 using different single SSE. The HVMEC-SSEs failed as the over-potential reached 5 V. d) Raman spectra of the HVMEC-SSEs including LGePS, LSnPS, and LSnS. e) The schematic diagram and the CCD testing results of the sandwich SSE structure, showing the dendrite inhibition role of the LGePS and LSnPS interlayer. f) Arrhenius plots of single LPSCl, LGePS, LSnPS, and LSnS electrolytes and the related composite SSEs. g,h) CCD performance of g) LPSCl||LGePS||LPSCl and h) LPSCl||LSnPS||LPSCl composite SSEs under 15 MPa. The thickness of the LGePS or LSnPS interlayer is about 300 µm.

The Li||Li symmetric cells using the six kinds of single electrolytes were tested first at a mild condition of 0.1 mA cm−2 and 0.05 mAh cm−2 (Figures and , Supporting Information). It is clearly distinguished that the cells with HVMEF-SSEs all failed due to a short-circuited problem as the Li dendrite penetrated the SSEs (Figures  and ). Distinctively, the cells with three kinds of HVMEC-SSEs were quickly out of operation when the battery over-potential ramped up to 5 V cut-off voltage (Figures  and ).

Structure determines properties. From the Raman spectra analysis (Figure ), we know that the LGePS, LSnPS, and LSnS SSEs are composed of MS4(M═Ge, Sn or P) units with Li+ ions to achieve electric neutrality. We suppose that the uncontrollable interfacial chemistry of HVMEC-SSEs could root in the GeS4or SnS4units, because the HVMEF-SSE which has PS4unit can keep the electrode over-potential steady (Figure , Supporting Information).

Figure  presents our multilayer SSE architecture design, in which the less-stable sulfide is sandwiched between two LPSCl layers. We choose the LPSCl as the superficial because the highly conductive LPSCl exhibits the most stable and lowest polarization toward Li metal (Figure , Supporting Information). Despite the chemical-stable anode-SSE interface, the mismatched Li/SSE interface, the defects or voids inside the LPSCl, and the possible Li plating behavior along the grain boundary (GB) can induce Li dendrite to pierce the LPSCl. As a result, Li||LPSCl||Li cell exhibited the lowest polarization but working for less 120 h with a short circuit. To evaluate the dendrite inhibiting ability of the multilayer SSEs, we conducted the critical current density (CCD) measurement. The current density of the Li||Li symmetric cell at the beginning of the short circuit is taken as the CCD value in this work. We can learn that the composite SSEs with HVMEF-SSE interlayers all failed by a short circuits with CCD values less than 0.8 mA cm−2. Composite SSEs show similar CCD performance with single LPSCl or the single related HVMEF-SSE, indicating there is no interfacial coupling effect to prohibit dendrite growth when HVMEF-SSE interlayer is used (Figure , Supporting Information).

As for the CCD results of LPSCl||HVMEC-SSE||LPSCl architecture (Figure  g,h), we find that the LPSCl superficial layer can preliminarily stabilize the Li metal interface so that the cells using the LGePS or LSnPS interlayer both exhibit gradual risen over-potential as the current density increases. The over-potential of LSnPS composite SSE is larger than that of LGePS composite SSE, especially at the current density region over 1 mA cm−2, which could be attributed to the obviously higher ionic conductive ability of LGePS-containing SSEs (Figure ; Figure , Supporting Information). More interestingly, the cells with the two composite SSEs show no short-circuited issues even at a huge current density of 3 mA cm−2. We have also conducted the CCD test of a single LGePS or LSnPS SSE, and found that no short-circuited phenomenon can be observed before the cells quickly reach open circuit (Figure , Supporting Information). It inspired us that the metal-containing HVMEC-SSEs which are always recognized as extremely incompatible with Li metal, may have the innate ability to inhibit dendrite growth. Our multilayer study has the opportunity to realize the hierarchy of interface stabilities by taking advantage of both the HVMEC- and HVMEF-SSE.

Strikingly, the SnS4unit containing LSnS and the corresponding LPSCl||LSnS||LPSCl composite SSE were unable to prohibit dendrite growth with a small CCD value of only 0.2 mA cm−2 (Figure , Supporting Information). It demonstrates that the existence of a metal element-containing unit structure in the interlayer sulfide is not a sufficient condition for the multilayer SSEs to suppress dendrite penetration. The prerequisite will be revealed in the following conditions.

### 2.2 The Mechanism to Inhibit Dendrite in Dynamically Stable Sulfide Electrolyte

To reveal the dendrite-inhibiting mechanism of multilayer architecture, we studied the properties of composite SSEs with HVMEC-SSE interlayer in detail. Figure shows the cross-sectional scanning electron microscope (SEM) images of the LPSCl||LSnPS||LPSCl SSE. We can learn that the composite electrolyte pellet is about 700 microns thick with a discernible morphological boundary between LPSCl and LSnPS region. The enlarged SEM images in Figure  indicate that the LPSCl is more like a polyhedron and our synthesized LSnPS displays rod-type morphology, which identifies with their native particles before pressure molding (Figure , Supporting Information). The forming pressure of 220 MPa can make the SSE particles undergo plastic deformation and densify the SSE pellet to achieve high ionic conductivity. The EDS elemental mapping (Figure , Supporting Information) verified the designed multilayer architecture with discernible cracks and voids. However, a certain amount of obvious cracks can be still observed in the LPSCl, LSnPS region, and their interface, which could be the defects to induce dendrite penetration. So we suppose that the reason for dendrite inhibition could not be the compact structure of multilayer SSE.

Figure 3

The dendrite-inhibiting mechanism study of dynamically stable SSE architectures. a) The cross-sectional SEM image of LPSCl||LSnPS||LPSCl composite electrolyte after ceramic cutting treatment. b) The enlarged SEM images of the LPSCl (up) and LSnPS (down) region. c) Electronic conductivities of single LGePS, LSnPS, and LSnS SSE at 30 °C. d) The schematic diagram of the XPS analysis process. e) Ge 3d spectra of LGePS interlayer before and after cycling. f) Sn 3d spectra of LSnPS interlayer before and after cycling. g) Sn 3d spectra of LSnS interlayer before and after cycling. h) The reaction energy with Li metal of LGePS, LSnPS, and LSnS. i) Calculated mutual reaction energy of Li–Sn interface. j) Calculated mutual reaction energy of Li–Ge interface.

We try to examine the dendrite-inhibited ability as the middle-layer (LSnPS) SSE gets thinner. For the new multilayer design, only 10 mg of LSnPS powder was used, corresponding an interlayer thickness of ≈30 µm. It is hard to further decrease the thickness of the interlayer, because less powder is difficult to spread evenly in a 15 mm diameter mold. The thinning of interlayer from ≈300 to ≈30 µm exactly leads to a lower CCD value from 3 to 1.8 mA cm−2 (Figure  h; Figure , Supporting Information). Even with a thin interlayer, the Li–Li symmetrical cell cycles stably for more than 200  at a large current density of 0.5 mA cm−2.

It was presented that the high electronic conductivity of SSEs could induce the Li+ ions to directly trap electrons within pre-existing grain boundary and cracks to form Li dendrites. As shown in Figure  and Figure (Supporting Information), the electronic conductivity of the SSEs follows the order: LSnPS (3.01 × 10−9 S cm−1) > LGePS (2.99 × 10−9 S cm−1) > LPSCl (1.56 × 10−9 S cm−1) > LSnS (4.72 × 10−10 S cm−1). The electronic conductivity of easily short-circuited HVMEF-type LPSCl is almost half that of LGePS and LSnPS. And among the HVMEC-SSEs, the LSnS SSE which has the lowest CCD value exhibits the much weaker electronic conductivity than LGePS or LSnPS. It demonstrates that the low electronic conductivity is not the determinant for prohibiting dendrite growth in our composite SSE design.

In consideration of the same Li-LPSCl interface between Li metal and all the composite SSEs, we focus our research on the interface between LPSCl and the HVMEC-SSE interlayer (Figure ). All the cells were treated by CCD measurement in which the current density was gradually increased to 1 mA cm−2. With this pretreatment, Li whiskers have penetrated the LPSCl layer (Figure , Supporting Information). There is a clear boundary by color between the LPSCl and HVMEC-SSE layer so that we can easily remove the LPSCl superficial layer using a knife (Figure , Supporting Information). The exposed interface shows plenty of black spots, illustrating that the Li whiskers which penetrate from LPSCl layer have feasible reactions with HVMEC-materials.

X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was conducted to investigate the chemistry properties at the exposed surface of cycled HVMEC-SSE interlayer. As shown in Figure , The Ge 3d spectra indicate that the GeS4unit in LGePS was obviously degraded to form Ge metal. And then, the formed Ge metal was further alloyed with Li whiskers to generate Li–Ge alloy species (≈28.7 eV). It should be mentioned that it formed no metallic Ge species in Li Xin’ work. Their LGePS was decomposed to moderately reduced Ge species with a high valence state (≈30.3 eV). The reason that different products are found in our research with a similar multilayer SSE structure is due to our abandonment of high cycling pressure (250 MPa). Under our low cycling pressure of 15 MPa, the reactivity between LGePS and Li whiskers could not be constrained. However, we also achieve the dendrite-inhibiting effect more economically, suggesting that there is a more universal mechanism except for the declared “expansion screw” effect to suppress dendrite. In the Sn 3d spectra of the LSnPS interlayer, we found a similar phenomenon to LGePS, that is, the reaction of Li whiskers with the LSnPS interlayer to produce Li–Sn alloy species (Figure ). By comparison, the Sn 3d spectra of LSnS came out no obvious change after CCD test without distinct Sn metallic signals (Figure  g).

According to previous reported work, the feasible reaction equations of LGePS, LSnPS, and LSS with Li metal can be:

20⁢L⁢i+L⁢i⁢10⁢G⁢e⁢P⁢2⁢S⁢12=G⁢e+12⁢L⁢i⁢2⁢S+2⁢L⁢i⁢3⁢P$$\begin{equation}20Li + Li10GeP2S12 = Ge + 12Li2S + 2Li3P\end{equation}$$(1)

20⁢L⁢i+L⁢i⁢10⁢S⁢n⁢P⁢2⁢S⁢12=S⁢n+12⁢L⁢i⁢2⁢S+2⁢L⁢i⁢3⁢P$$\begin{equation}20Li + Li10SnP2S12 = Sn + 12Li2S + 2Li3P\end{equation}$$(2)

4⁢L⁢i+L⁢i⁢4⁢S⁢n⁢S⁢4=S⁢n+4⁢L⁢i⁢2⁢S$$\begin{equation}4Li + Li4SnS4 = Sn + 4Li2S\end{equation}$$(3)

The reaction energy to generate one metal atom was calculated as −29.66, −29.75, and −6.56 eV for LGePS, LSnPS, and LSnS, respectively (Figure  h). The much lower thermo-reacting ability between LSnS and Li metal indicates that it is not easy for LSnS to form metallic Sn, which coincides with the material analysis in Figure  g. It should be noted that our calculation does not mean there is no side reaction or totally no possibility of producing metallic Sn for LSnS. In fact, the open-circuit issue of Li||LSnS||Li cell at low current density indicates that a side reaction between Li and LSnS still exists (Figure ). But the reaction ability is much weaker than LGePS's or LSnPS's so that Li whiskers may already penetrate the LSnS-containing SSE at a large current density. We further calculated the Li metal's reaction ability with Sn and Ge metal according to the phase diagram using the possibly stable metallic phases in Materials Project. As shown in Figure , Ge and Sn have a very strong ability to alloy with Li, and are most likely to form Li5Sn2and Li7Sn3phases and Li15Ge4and Li9Ge4phases, respectively. The calculated huge alloying capacities of 564 mAh g−1 for Sn (Li5Sn2) and 830 mAh g−1 for Ge (Li9Ge4) reveal that the both metal substance could hold abundant Li atoms.

In this section, we suggest that the dendrite inhibiting effect of multilayer architecture loots in the dynamic decomposing-alloying process. In details, Li whiskers which grow out from the HVMEF-SSE layer (LPSCl) cause the HVMEC-SSE interface to decompose and produce metal. After a quick alloying reaction with the metal substance, Li whiskers are swallowed promptly and can no longer penetrate (Figure ). The prerequisite of the process is that the interlayer sulfide must have a certain ability to be decomposed to metal and the formed metal should be prone to alloy with Li whiskers. We report that the reaction energy could be an indicator to briefly evaluate the possibility of this process.

### 2.3 The Evaluation of Interfacial Stability of Dynamically Stable Sulfide Electrolyte

Figure presents the cycling performance of Li||Li symmetric cells with LPSCl||LGePS||LPSCl and LPSCl||LSnPS||LPSCl SSEs at 0.5 mA cm−2.The LGePS-containing group displays slightly lower over-potential in the beginning because the composite SSE has better ionic conducive ability. However, the over-potential of the symmetric cell increases sharply and exceeds 200 mV within only 150 cycles. By contrast, it declares much more steady over-potential of less than 90 mV within 900 cycles in the cell of LSnPS-containg composite SSE (Figure , Supporting Information). When the current density increases to 1 mA cm−2, both groups of cells still show no short-circuited issues. However, the over-potential of LGePS-containing group extremely ramps up while that of the LSnPS-containing group remains much more steady (Figure , Supporting Information).

Figure 4

The long-term polarization performance at Li metal anode side with dynamically stable SSE. a) The cycling performance of Li||Li symmetric cells using composite SSEs with LGePS and LSnPS interlayer at a current density of 0.5 mA cm−2 under 15 MPa. b) The schematic diagrams of the interface derivations of composite SSEs with LGePS and LSnPS interlayer. c) The time-dependent Nyquist plots of Li||LGePS||Li cell. d) The time-dependent Nyquist plots of Li||LSnPS||Li cell. e) The equivalent circuit for cells with mixed ionic–conductive interface. f) The calculated time-dependent ionic resistanceRionof the interfacial decomposition layers. g) The calculated time-dependent electronic resistanceReonof the interfacial decomposition layers.

The two composite SSEs both have the same LPSCl superficial layer to direct contact with Li metal electrode. The formed SEI composed of Li2S, Li3P, and LiCl decompositions should make the electrode polarization steady (Figure , Supporting Information) but it appears failed. We declare that the marked difference of the two composite SSEs in over-potential is due to the two types of evolutions at the dynamic interface between LPSCl and HVMEC-SSE layers (Figure ). In LPSCl||LGePS||LPSCl group (Type 1), Li whiskers which grow out from the LPSCl layer cause the LGePS interface to decompose. The produced Ge metal species plays the role of swallowing site to prohibit dendrite growth. However, the uncontrollable generation of metallic substance allows the electrons to transport along the interface and promote the continuous degradation of LGePS interlayer, resulting the ever-increasing over-potential. In LPSCl||LSnPS||LPSCl group (Type 2), we suppose that the transport of electrons between metal species and SSEs could be well constrained by insulating by-products so that a self-limited degradation of LSnPS interlayer leads to controllable over-potential.

The evaluation at the contact site between Li whiskers and HVMEC-interlayer decides the interfacial stability. In order to simplify the complexity of the research, we directly assembled the Li||LGePS||Li and Li||LSnPS||Li symmetric cells and measured their time-dependent electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS). As shown in Figure , the Nyquist plots of the cells during the setting process within 20 h all present a semicircle in high-frequency region with an arc in low frequency. The distinct plot shape is identical to the reported MCI-containing circuit. In their equivalent circuit (Figure ), theRpar||CPEdielelement which describes the high-frequency semicircle, represents the parallel migration of ions and electrons in the MCI layer as well as the dielectric capacitance property. The parallel resistance is given byRpar= ((Rion)−1 + (Reon)−1)−1 , withRionandReondenoting the ionic and electronic resistance, respectively. Due to the blocking of the electrons by the bulk phase of the SSE, the low-frequency intercept of the finite-length Warburg impedanceWs(Warburg short) with the real axis reflects the stationary Li+ ions current across the MCI layer and could be thus given by the ionic resistance of the MCI,Rion. Based on the mentioned, the evaluation of ionic and electronic impedances can be decoupled from EIS data.

As shown in Figure , a prominent MCI-type interface is generated only after 0.5 h of battery assembly, reflecting that the formation of metallic species is very fast to swallow the Li dendrite in time. Figure  indicates that the decoupledRionof MCI in the cell with LGePS fleetly increases from ≈300 to ≈1200 Ω within 20 h, explaining the uncontrollable polarization ramping up in its composite SSE (Figure ). In comparison, it exhibits more steadyRionchange in LSnPS group, which reflects the steady polarization in cells with LPSCl||LSnPS||LPSCl. The distinct difference could be attributed to the much biggerReonof MCI layer in LSnPS group (Figure  g). After 0.5 h of contact with Li metal electrode, the MCI layer of LSnPS has a largeReonof ∼1000 Ω, while the MCI layer of LGePS only has a smallReonof 150 Ω. With the increase of contact time, theReonof the interface between LSnPS and Li metal rises rapidly and achieves ≈4100 Ω after only 20 h.

Though the EIS measurement was conducted to reveal the interface evaluation between bulk Li metal and single HVMEC-SSE, the difference resistance behavior can be transferred to the interface between the penetrated Li whiskers and the corresponding HVMEC-interlayer of multilayer SSEs. It should be noted that the LPSCl superficial layer can prominently isolate the direct contact between Li metal anode and HVMEC interlayer. As a result, the uncontrollable degradation could be significantly decreased because of the limited contact between the HVMEC interlayer and the small area of penetrated Li whiskers.

Any change in the chemical potential of the mobile species at the interface between SSE and Li metal anode, will generate a driving force for charge reorganization due to equilibration of the Fermi energies. The low voltage of the Li metal anode (highµLi) drives mobile species into the SSE, inducing the depletion of charge carriers and creating decomposition regions (Figure , Supporting Information). The Li chemical potentialµLiequals to the sum ofµLi+ andµe−. At the equilibrium, the redistribution of Li+ and e− are formed at the interface to account for the potential drop across the Li metal-SSE interface. The electrochemical potential of the highly mobile Li+,µLi+, which includes the electrostatic potential energy, is constant across the interface. In contrast, the electrochemical potential of the electronic carrierµe−, has different trends, since the decomposition regions have different electronic mobility and conductivity. As shown in Figure (left), the decompositions at the LGePS-Li whisker interface cannot lead to the drop of Li chemical potential (µLi) across the SSE, since sufficient electronic conduction of the formed metal species offers high electron electrochemical potential. As a result, the LGePS particle is still exposed to the highµLiof Li metal, leading to the continued reduction reaction between LGePS and Li whiskers. Nevertheless, it is believed that some insulating by-products could block electron transport at the contact front between Li whiskers and LSnPS, resulting in the lowµLiand stable interface.

Figure 5

The analysis of self-limiting decompositions of LGePS and LSnPS interlayers. a) Schematic diagram about the change of Li chemical potentialsµLiacross the interface between Li whiskers and HVMEC-SSE. b) The band gap comparisons of SSEs and the decomposition products. c) S 2p spectra of LGePS interlayer before and after cycling. d) S 2p spectra of LSnPS interlayer before and after cycling. e) Projected density of states analysis of bulk LGePS and LSnPS. f) Crystal orbital Hamiltonian population analysis of the S- bonds in LGePS and LSnPS.

Figure  shows the calculated band gap energy (Eg) of bulk SSEs and the possible insulating by-products from evaluating their band structures (Figure , Supporting Information). The similar Eg values of LSnPS and LGePS indicate that the bulk SSEs have the similar electronic insulation, identifying well with the measured results in Figure . Among the materials, Li2S is the most electronic insulating by-product according to its outstanding Eg value of 3.39 eV, which is even much bigger than that of the SSEs (≈2 eV). The band gap of Li3P is 0.71 eV, so it can be recognized as a semiconductor. Though Li3P has certain electronic conductivity, its conductivity is far from high to well construct the electron pathway of the decomposition microstructure and can't obviously intensify the side reaction in our architecture. The most intuitive reason is that Li3P has been widely proven to be stable as a component of SEI.When the Li metal is cycled with HVMEF-SSEs like Li3PS4and Li7P3S11, Li3P-containing SEI can be formed as well as the Li2S. As shown in Figure (Supporting Information), we can obviously observe a steady overpotential before a short circuit. It declares that Li3P can't significantly intensify the side reaction to increase the polarization in the presence of Li2S. Based on the analysis, we further evaluate the S species at the interface of LGePS and LSnPS interlayers (Figure ). Figure  shows that the S-containing unit structure in LGePS interlayer is seldom be decomposed to Li2S. By contrast, it appears distinctly S decomposition signals with a much more abundance of Li2S and other reduced S species at the surface of the LSnPS interlayer (Figure ).

To explore the reason that different activity to produce S reduced species, we check the electronic properties of LGePS and LSnPS. Figure  shows their calculated projected density of states (PDOS). PDOS of LGePS and LSnPS have basically the analogical features where both the densities change sharply at the edge bands, mainly due to their similar crystal structures (Insets in Figure ). It depicts that S atoms contribute most of the states below the valence band. Crystal orbital Hamiltonian population (COHP) analysis was given to assess the strength of S- bonds in the two SSEs (Figure ). The S─Sn bond in LSnPS exhibits the significantly longest average bond length of 2.411 Å and a smallest –ICOHP value of 4.738 eV, indicating that the S─Sn bond is more likely to break to produce Li2S. It should be noted that the results do not mean a more abundance in metallic Sn product because the release of one S atom from SnS4unit is far from producing Sn. The electronic properties analysis reveals the reason to produce more insulating Li2S at the surface of the LSnPS interlayer. The Li2S products at the contact front between Li whiskers and HVMEC-SSE interlayer are apt to block the electron transport to limit the decomposition and stabilize the dynamic interface.

### 2.4 Cycling Performance of Li||SNCM811 Batteries with Dynamically Stable Sulfide Electrolyte

To demonstrate the excellent dendrite suppression capability and anode interfacial compatibility, the Li||SNCM811 ASSLBs using our dynamically stable composite sulfide SSE were evaluated, as shown in Figure . The SNCM811 particles have a small half-content diameter (D50) of 2.549 µm with distinguished single-crystal morphology (Figures and , Supporting Information). We also used the LPSCl superficial layer to contact the SNCM811 cathode because the LPSCl sulfide material demonstrates decent compatibility with SNCM811. The clear peaks in dQ/dV curve (Figure , Supporting Information) declare that the SNCM811 undergoes phase transitions from the layered phase (H1) to the monoclinic structure (M) and the two hexagonal phases (H2 and H3). Our SNCM811 particles are without any coating or doping modifications. To reduce the interference of cathode degradations, we cycled the cells at a relatively low cut-off voltage of 4.2 V so that the underlying anisotropic lattice shrinkage during H2→H3 transition process could be retarded. To better clarify the interfacial stability of our NCM811 with LPSCl, we have testified the cycling performance of Li-In||LPSCl||NCM811. The Li–In anode has a much higher electrochemical potential of ≈0.6 V versus Li+/Li. The higher potential hugely decreases the output voltage of ASSBs, but can significantly inhibit the side reactions at the anode. The extremely stable Li–In anode can be used to evaluate the interface stability between the cathode and sulfide SSE. As shown in Figure (Supporting Information), even if the cell is cycled at higher voltage of 4.3 V, the NCM811 cathode still shows a stable capacity retention of ≈98.5% after 100 cycles. In this way, we can clearly distinguish that the fast-deteriorate capacity performance is mainly due to the unstable interface at the Li metal anode side. The interfacial reaction between LPSCl and NMC can't influence the comparison

Figure 6

The cycling performance of Li||NCM811 cells using dynamically stable SSE architectures under 15 MPa. a) The schematic diagram of the ASSLBs with our dynamically stable sulfide SSE. b) The rate performance. c) The long-cycling performance of the cells at 1C.

The cells used our multilayer SSEs with LGePS or LSnPS interlayer both exhibit no shirt circuit during the rate performance test (Figure ). The reversible discharge capacities for the LPSCl||LSnPS||LPSCl group at 0.2, 0.5, 1, 1.5 and 2C (1C ≈ 0.95 mA cm−2) are 136, 115, 96, 82, and 72 mAh g−1, respectively, and a capacity of 133 mAh g−1 can be recovered at 0.2C (Figure , Supporting Information). The LGePS interlayer containing group has a slightly higher initial discharge capacity of 139 mAh g−1 mainly due to the composite SSE's higher ionic conductive ability. However, the uncontrollable side reactions between the Li whiskers and LGePS interlayer gradually deteriorate the overall ionic conductive path and induce the lower discharge capacity than that of the cell with LSnPS-containing composite SSE. To access the long-term interfacial stability toward Li metal anode, the cells were conducted at 1C (Figure ). The large charging/discharging current of 0.95 mA cm−2 continuously destroys the dynamic stability of LPSCl||LGePS||LPSCl SSE, so that the cell exhibited a sustaining capacity fading after only dozens of stable cycles. Impressively, the ASSLBs with LPSCl||LSnPS||LPSCl SSE exhibit the ultra-stable cycling performance with a capacity retention of 79.9% after 450 cycles (Figure , Supporting Information). Even after 600 cycles, the capacity retention still reaches 75.3%. It demonstrates that our dynamically stable sulfide electrolyte architecture can successfully construct the hierarchy of anode interface stability, that is to inhibit Li dendrite penetration via LSnPS interlayer's alloying mechanism and preserve the long-term interfacial stability by electron confinement effect (Figure ).

3 Conclusion
------------

In summary, we report a universal dynamically stable sulfide SSE architecture to inhibit dendrite growth and preserve steady polarization at Li metal anode. We successfully reveal that the dynamic decomposing-alloying process by HVMEC-SSE interlayer can prohibit dendrite penetration at a low stack pressure. It is also highlighted that the abundance of highly electronic insulating decompositions, such as Li2S, at HVMEC-SSE interlayer interface helps to preserve the long-term polarization stability. By using our LPSCl||LSnPS||LPSCl dynamically stable SSE architecture, Li metal anode shows an unprecedented critical current density over 3 mA cm−2 and holds the steady over-potential for ≈900 h. The Li||SNCM811 batteries achieve 75.3% retention even after 600 cycles at 1C (1C–0.95 mA cm−2) under a low stack pressure of 15 MPa. Our work provides important insights into understanding the hierarchy of interface stabilities and offers significant guidance to construct dynamically stable SSEs for realizing high-performance ASSLBs. In addition, the casting process for thinner SSE, the improvement for efficient moisture tolerance, and high-voltage stability at the cathode side need to be further modified to promote the practical use of the dynamically stable sulfide SSE design.

4 Experimental Section
----------------------

#### Materials

Single-crystalline NCM811 sample without coating or doping modifications was purchased from Guangdong Canrd New Energy Technology Co. Ltd. Lithium metal anode (200 µm thick) was bought from China Energy Lithium Co. Ltd. LPSCl, Li7P3S11,and 0.7Li3PS4-0.3LiI electrolyte powders were supplied by Ganfeng Lithium Group Co. Ltd. LGePS powder was supported by Guilin Electrical Equipment Scientific Research Institute Co. Ltd. LSnPS electrolyte was synthesized by mechanical ball milling and annealing. Li2S (99.98%, Sigma Aldrich), SnS2(99.5%, Energy Chemical), and P2S5(99.9%, Alfa Aesar) were weighed and put into a zirconia jar (125 mL) together with 25 zirconia balls. Mechanical milling was performed with a milling machine (Fritsch, P7) for 2 hours at a speed of 580 rpm min−1. The mixed powder was pressed into pellets and then sintered for 2 h at 873 K. The sintered pellets were ultimately powdered in a mortar. The LSnS electrolyte was produced via a gas-phase synthesis route. The stoichiometric Li2CO3(99.99%, Innochem) and SnO2(99.9%, Macklin) were hand-ground and transferred into an alumina crucible in a tubular furnace. N2with a controlled flow rate was passed through CS2liquid, thereby converting CS2into gaseous reaction gas into a tubular furnace. The reactant was heated at 500 °C for 24 h, and the product was ground to obtain solid electrolyte powder.

#### Batteries Assembly

The electrolyte pellet was formed by cold pressing 240 mg of electrolyte powder under 220 MPa in a battery mold with a diameter of 15 mm (Figure , Supporting Information). For the multilayer design, 140 mg of LPSCl and 100 mg of interlayer powder were used. To create the cathode mixture, 350 mg of NCM811 and 150 mg of LPSCl powders were mixed and hand-ground for 30 min in an agate mortar. A cold press method operating at 230 MPa was used to create the close contact between the composite cathode layer and the electrolyte pellet. The mass loading of NCM811 was ≈5.2 mg cm−2.

#### Electrochemical Test

Li||SNCM811 were conducted in the homemade pressurized cell under 15 MPa during cycling. The Li||Li symmetric cells using composite SSEs with HVMEC-interlayer were cycled under 15 MPa. The pressure of 15 MPa was befitting to make good interface contact of Li-SSE and NCM811-SSE. It should be mentioned that the Li||Li symmetric cells with single HVMEF-SSEs and their composites were cycled under 5 MPa because the pressure of 15 MPa induces the cells to be short-circuited before cycling (Figure , Supporting Information). Galvanostatic charge–discharge experiments were conducted using the LAND systems (CT2001A) at 30°C. Li||SNCM811 cells were cycled between 2.5 and 4.2 V at different C rates (1C = 180 mAh g−1). EIS measurements for the Li+ ion blocking setup (stainless steel||electrolyte pellet||stainless steel) under 220 MPa were used to obtain the temperature-dependent ionic conductivity of electrolytes. The activation energy (Ea) of electrolytes was derived from the Arrhenius relation. The electronic conductivities of the samples were measured by direct current (DC) polarization tests with externally applied voltages of 0.5 V for 1 h at 220 MPa. As for LSnS, DC polarization of 1 V was used to increase the current signal due to its low electronic conductivity. The EIS tests of Li||Li symmetric cells were conducted by an electrochemical workstation (CellTest 1470E, Solartron) in the frequency range of 100 KHz to 0.01 Hz at 30 °C.

#### Characterizations

Powder XRD was measured on a RIGAKU D/MAX 2550/PC equipment using copper Kαradiation between 10° and 70° (2θ). The XRD data for Rietveld refinements was obtained by scanning 2 s per step with a step of 0.02° between 10° and 120° (2θ). To prevent air exposure, the samples were sealed into a specimen holder with Kapton tape before being mounted on an X-ray diffractometer. Raman spectra were collected using a Renishaw in Viareflex Raman spectrophotometer at the laser excitation source of 532 nm. The morphology of the solid electrolyte and Li anode was evaluated by SEM (SU-8010, Hitachi) at 5 kV. In order to achieve cross-sectional morphology of sandwich-type electrolyte, ceramic cutting combined with the ion beam polisher (JEOL, IB-19520, Japan) was used. XPS was analyzed by a Thermo Scientific K-Alpha X-ray photoelectron spectrometer with Al KαX-ray as the excitation source.

#### Computational Procedure

The Vienna Ab initio Simulation Package (VASP) was utilized for density functional theory (DFT) calculations in this work, and the Perdew-Burke-Ernzerhof (PBE) generalized gradient approximation (GGA) functional was applied. The material phase which can exist stably in the Materials Project (MP) database is used as the basis for the construction of the alloying phase diagram. To calculate the reaction energy, the parameters such as the plane-wave energy cutoff andk-points density used in DFT calculations were consistent with the parameters employed for MP. In addition, the PV and entropy components’ contributions to the computed reaction energies were ignored as in previous studies. More accurate parameters were used to calculate the density of state and band structure. A plane wave basis set was used with a kinetic energy cutoff of 500 eV to characterize the ionic cores and incorporate valence electrons using projected augmented wave (PAW) potentials. Using the Gaussian smearing technique and a width of 0.05 eV, partial occupancies of the Kohn–Sham orbitals were permitted. When the energy shift was <10−5 eV, the electronic energy was regarded as self-consistent. When the energy change was <0.02 eV Å−1, a geometry optimization was deemed to have reached convergence. The Brillouin zone was integrated with a Monkhorst-Pack method for all structures.

Conflict of Interest
--------------------

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

