

1 Introduction
--------------

Sulfide-solid-electrolytes (SSEs) are a group of critical materials for developing solid-state batteries (SSBs), which are considered one of the most attractive and promising battery systems beyond lithium-ion batteries (LIBs). Compared with the flammable organic electrolytes in LIBs, SSEs enable SSBs to hold higher safety and higher energy, because they are thermally stable, withstand higher voltages, and can be made thinner and lighter. Among all major types of solid-electrolytes (SEs), SSEs are outstanding because they can compete with liquid electrolytes in ionic conductivity (easily reaching 1–10 mS cm−1). Moreover, SSEs are easier to be processed into thin films/membranes, due to their suitable softness. Therefore, in the past years, SSE-SSBs have received tremendous attentions and made significant progress toward practical applications. According to the structural characteristics, SSEs for Li+ and Na+ can be roughly classified into three groups: pseudo-binary (such as Li2S–P2S5and Na2S–MS2, where M = Si, Ge, and Sn), pseudo-ternary (such as Na2S–P2S5–MS2and Li2S–P2S5–LiX, where X = F, Cl, Br, and I), and pseudo-quaternary (such as Li2S–P2S5–MS2–LiX). Overall, the pseudo-ternary systems are most attractive due to their high ionic conductivity, electrochemical stability, and elemental abundances, such as Li6PS5Cl (LPSC), Li10GeP2S12(LGPS), Li10SnP2S12(LSPS) and Na11Sn2PS12(NSPS). To enable practical SSBs, the first task is to obtain high-quality SSEs.

Currently, there are two major strategies for making SSEs, that is, solid-phase strategy and liquid-phase strategy. Their key difference lies in how the raw materials are pre-treated before calcining the mixture to obtain the final products. In the first strategy, precursors at the appropriate molar ratio are typically ball-milled together to obtain a mixture of fine powders. In the second strategy, precursors are dissolved or dispersed in solvents to obtain a uniform mixture after solvent removal. While the solid-phase strategy generally produces SSEs with higher purity and ionic conductivity, it is difficult to scale up for massive production. In contrast, while the liquid-phase strategy is suitable for roll-to-roll processing and scalable, it currently confronts a few challenges: 1) the produced SSEs often include some impurities and present substandard performance; 2) the solvent removal typically goes through thermal evaporation that consumes a lot of energy; 3) the published methods are scarcely applicable to various solvents and SSEs; 4) the employed solvents are often not green due to cost, odor and/or toxicity. Taking the most promising Li6PS5Cl as the example, it is typically synthesized by first making the intermediate Li3PS4from Li2S and P2S5in tetrahydrofuran (THF, Equation ), then reacting Li3PS4with Li2S and LiCl in ethanol (EtOH, Equation ), and last calcining the precipitated solid after EtOH-distillation. The obtained Li6PS5Cl via this THF-EtOH route often contains the following impurities: Li2S, LiCl, Li3PO4, and C. Its ionic conductivity is rarely above 2 mS cm−1. The THF-EtOH route has not been applied to other SSEs beyond Li6PS5X (X = Cl, Br, and I). While EtOH is user-friendly, THF is not. Thus, the THF-EtOH approach may be challenging for practical applications.

(1)

(2)

Recently, Lee et al. reported a universal liquid-phase method of making three SSEs (LPSC, LGPS, and NSPS) by developing an alkahest-like solvent composed of ethylenediamine-ethylenedithiol (EDA-EDT). The novelty lies in the fact that EDA-EDT can dissolve all the involved raw materials of Li2S, GeS2, SnS2, Na2S, and LiCl to allow for quickly obtaining a homogenous solution and subsequently producing uniform SSEs after calcination. Their work is also the first report for synthesizing LGPS and NSPS via the liquid-phase strategy. However, it remains unclear if the full dissolution of all precursors is necessary or not, since the post-calcination is still imperative therein and some conventional liquid-phase methods operate in the form of suspensions. Moreover, the obtained SSEs by the EDA-EDT method also have those typical impurities. Additionally, the used two solvents of EDA and EDT are not green, expensive, and difficult to evaporate, as shown in Table (Supporting Information). Therefore, the exploration of more practical liquid-phase methods for making SSEs is still necessary.

Herein we report a general and more user-friendly solvothermal approach to producing high-purity SSEs. The method has several significant attributes: 1) the eligible solvents do not contain oxygen atoms and thus avoid the concomitance of Li3PO4impurity; 2) alkanes are the most favorite solvents among all the tested ones and can prevent any impurities; 3) solid precursors do not need to dissolve in the solvent during the solvothermal process; 4) there exists an “interparticle coupled unification (ICU)” effect, which means that the uniform composite during the solvothermal process is produced through collision-induced mutual chemisorption and then thermodynamically-governed interface amalgamation. The tested model precursors include individually stable ionic crystals like Li2S, Na2S, and LiCl, covalent solid like P2S5, and covalent crystals like GeS2and SnS2. The generality and power of the ICU effect is demonstrated by the successful synthesis of high-purity Li6PS5Cl using five kinds of oxygen-free solvents (n-hexane, 2,2,4-trimethylpentane, cyclohexane, 1-methylcyclohexane, and tetrahydrothiophene) and synthesis of three other SSEs (LGPS, LSPS, and NSPS) using n-hexane. The essential insolubility of SSEs in those solvents at room temperature enables the crude products to be readily collected via filtration/centrifugation without the need of solvent distillation, which is highly desired for atom economy, time efficiency, energy efficiency, and operation easiness. These alkanes are relatively cheap, not odorous, barely toxic, and recyclable to make high-purity SSEs repeatedly. All four SSEs are systematically analyzed to characterize their chemical compositions, morphological structures, and ionic/electronic conductivities. Remarkably, among the three SSEs assessed for their applications in full batteries of Li-In|SSEs|SSEs-NCM811, LPSC shows significantly better performance than the THF-EtOH-derived counterpart. Thus, the alkane-based solvothermal method of synthesizing SSEs is a universal and green process, having a great potential for practical applications.

2 Results
---------

### 2.1 Origin of the Li3PO4Impurity in the THF-EtOH Method

Our development of a new liquid-phase method was motivated to avoid the persistent existence of Li3PO4impurity in the conventional liquid-phase methods. In the literature, people reported its presence and hypothesized that it is related to the hydrolysis or alcoholysis of P2S5, but did not provide confirmative evidence. In our recently reported “de novo liquid-phase method” of making LPSC adapted from the THF-EtOH approach (Equations  and ), we also observed Li3PO4impurity even if anhydrous THF and EtOH were used. Thus, to search for the evidence of alcoholysis in our “de novo” synthesis, the EtOH solution at the end of Equation  was analyzed with gas chromatography-mass spectroscopy (GC-MS). Three non-solvent chemicals were observed (Figure ) and can be assigned to tetrahydrothiophene (THT, peak I, at 3.65 min), diethyl O, O, O-triethylphosphorothioate (peak II, at 7.34 min), and dithiophosphoric acid (peak III, at 8.95 min). The latter two alien chemicals strongly indicate that there exists the alcoholysis of P2S5, which shall be responsible for generating Li3PO4during the calcination stage. Since THT does not exist in solvents (Figure Top, Supporting Information), to understand the origin of this puzzling chemical, we further analyzed the THF solution after soaking P2S5for 6 h at room temperature. The GC-MS result (Figure , Supporting Information) shows two chemicals, which can be identified to be THT (peak I, at 3.57 min) and 1, 2-dithiane (peak II, at 5.89 min), respectively. Evidently, this experiment confirms that THT must come from the parasitic reaction between THF and P2S5during the process of Equation , which is further supported by the detection of 1, 2-dithiane, since S─S moieties only exist in P2S5in our added chemicals.

Figure 1

GC-MS analysis of the EtOH solution at the end of the “de novo liquid-phase” method of making LPSC. a) the GC result; b–d) the MS results according to the three chromatographic peaks in GC.

Next, to figure out if THF is separately responsible for the origin of Li3PO4, we used THF as a single solvent to synthesize LPSC. The reaction was conducted by stirring the mixture of Li2S, P2S5, LiCl, and THF at room temperature for three weeks. After calcining the collected solid out of THF, we obtained solid electrolyte LPSC. Compared with the THF-EtOH approach, while the THF approach produced a significantly lower amount of Li3PO4(\*) in LPSC (Figure ), the correlation between THF and Li3PO4was confirmed. Therefore, although EtOH and THF are commonly used solvents for synthesizing SSEs, the above results show that these two solvents are problematic for practical applications. Then, since THT is a resultant chemical between THF and P2S5, we employed the THT-based solvothermal process to synthesize LPSC in order to study if THT can avoid the Li3PO4impurity. The XRD result shows that pure LPSC without Li3PO4can indeed be made using THT as the solvent (Figure ).

Figure 2

a) XRD results of the LPSC electrolytes synthesized by the conventional THF-EtOH dual solvent approach i), the THF single solvent approach ii), and the THT single solvent approach iii). b) Raman spectra of LPSC/EtOH solution together with pure EtOH i); Raman spectra of the intermediate products before sintering in the solvothermal preparation of LPSC from THT ii); Raman spectra of the LPSC electrolytes synthesized by the THT single solvent approach iii).

Afterward, to further understand the EtOH-Li3PO4correlation, we dissolved some commercial LPSC in EtOH, dried off the solvent, and last calcined the collected solid. According to XRD characterizations (Figure , Supporting Information), the dried-out solid was a mixture of Li2S (◆), LiCl (●), and Li2S-EtOH adduct (▼). In contrast, the subsequently calcined sample returned to crystalline LPSC with impurities of Li3PO4, Li2S, and LiCl (Figure , Supporting Information). This set of results indicates that EtOH can cause the decomposition of LPSC and there are neither LPSC molecules nor LPSC crystals in EtOH. This result motivated us to further Raman-analyze the LPSC/EtOH solution to check if Li3PS4exists therein. As shown in Figure , except for the two small unknown peaks at 380 and 483 cm−1, the Raman results of LPSC/EtOH solution and pure EtOH are identical. We could not observe the characteristic peak of PS43− ions at 420 cm−1, indicating their non-existence in EtOH. In contrast, when drying off a Li3PS4/EtOH solution by vacuum drying at room temperature (Figure , Supporting Information), the corresponding XRD data showed that the solid was a mixture of Li2S, Li2S-EtOH adduct (Figure middle, Supporting Information), and some unknown peaks, but without any peaks from Li3PS4. Strangely, we still could not see Li3PS4peaks after heating the sample at 300 °C (Figure top, Supporting Information). However, the further calcination at 550 °C (Figure , Supporting Information) generated Li3PO4, Li7PS6, and Li8P2S9, still without Li3PS4. Thus, the above experiments imply that EtOH undesirably decomposes Li3PS4back to Li2S and some unknown PxSychemical(s). In contrast, Li3PS4can be made in the cases of using THF (as described by Equation ) and THT (as shown by the Raman analysis in Figure ). The finally-obtained LPSC in the latter case shows strong peaks of PS43− units (Figure ), while one flaw is that a broad peak in the area of 1100–1700 cm−1 indicates the existence of amorphous carbon impurity coming from the pyrolyzed THT residual.

All the above results together mean that both EtOH and THF can cause the generation of Li3PO4impurity, while the latter is less serious. Noticing the often existence of Li3PO4and C impurities also in other liquid-phase methods, we believe that the synthesis of high-purity SSEs cannot use O-containing solvents. While THT can circumvent Li3PO4, it is not desirable for practical applications either, because it is not a green chemical and can also cause C impurity. Therefore, searching for new solvents has to continue.

### 2.2 Solvothermal Synthesis of Li6PS5Cl using Hydrocarbon Solvents

The above study implies that even nonpolar hydrocarbons may be worth a shot, due to the following facts. First, although Li2S and P2S5do not dissolve in THF or THT, they can react therein in the form of suspension to produce Li3PS4precipitate. Second, Li3PS4, Li2S, and LiCl dissolve in EtOH but they actually do not react to generate LPSC molecules. Third, regardless of the solid-phase strategy or the liquid-phase strategy, the last step of calcination is necessary to obtain workable LPSC. The first hydrocarbon solvent of consideration was n-hexane. Then, three solvothermal reactions for making LPSC were conducted, by stirring mixtures of n-hexane, Li2S, P2S5, and LiCl for different durations, followed by centrifugation and calcination (Figure ). XRD results for the collected precipitates (Figure ) show the following two features: 1) there are no observable changes to Li2S peaks; 2) the peak intensities of LiCl decrease dramatically to essentially zero after 24 h; 3) there exist diffraction peaks of P2S5crystals, despite their weak intensities due to the low mass loading. Therefore, some kind of physical/chemical interaction among n-hexane and precursors must have occurred, because originally LiCl had sharp peaks and P2S5had no peaks (Figure , Supporting Information). After calcining the collected precipitates, we obtained high-purity LPSC, referring to standard XRD patterns (Figure ). With this success, four other hydrocarbon solvents (from alkanes, alkenes, and arenes) were also studied, including cyclohexane, 2,2,4-trimethylpentane (isooctane), 1-hexene, and toluene. Analogous to n-hexane, the first two solvents also produced high-purity LPSC (Figure ). However, the latter two solvents contained two impurities of Li8P2S9and Li2S in addition to LPSC (Figure , Supporting Information), which means a deficient amount of LiCl in the solid precipitate prior to calcination. Thus, we suspect that some originally added LiCl is lost into the solvent phase when centrifugating the suspension. To verify this hypothesis, we measured the solubility of LiCl in 1-hexene and toluene and determined the values to be 4.9 and 8.9 g L−1, respectively. With that, to avoid the loss of LiCl caused by centrifugation, we employed solvent distillation instead for the liquid-solid separation. Unfortunately, the final products after calcination still contain impurities (Figure , Supporting Information), where the case of 1-hexene contains Li2S and LiCl while the case of toluene contains Li8P2S9, Li2S, and LiCl. The new emergence of LiCl impurity may be ascribed to its delayed precipitation because of its solubility, causing an inhomogeneous mixture of precursors prior to calcination. The persistent Li8P2S9impurity in the case of toluene may be explained by the higher solubility of LiCl in it. These results imply that any functional groups in solvents might have some unknown negative impacts on the generation of LPSC and only alkanes among various hydrocarbons are the best solvents.

Figure 3

Development of the solvothermal method for making SSEs. a) Schematic diagram of the whole process; b) XRD results of LPSC precursors after solvothermal treatments at 140 °C for 6, 12, and 24 h; c) XRD results of three LPSC samples prepared via the solvothermal method with three different alkanes.

Next, we employed SEM and EDS to study the morphological evolution of the collected precipitates from the three solvothermal syntheses shown in Figure (6–24 h). For the sample collected at 6 h (Figure ), we can observe some big LiCl particles of >100 µm (contoured in a1), since their morphologies in the SEM image well match with the profiles of intense Cl signals. In contrast, the P- and S-profiles are entirely overlapped and also cover the Cl-areas. Since there are no isolated P-spots (corresponding to P2S5), we believe that Li2S and P2S5are uniformly mingled. Some particles that look like LiCl (numbered) but show barely detectable Cl-signals are believed to be covered with Li2S-P2S5, since the P- and S-signals are strong therein. When zooming at a larger magnification (Figure ), we can observe that the LiCl monoliths consist of surface-smooth, pebble-like primary particles (circled) and that the Li2S-P2S5particles are like vesicles (arrowed). Compared with the original morphologies of Li2S, LiCl, and P2S5(Figure , Supporting Information), the observed changes here are very dramatic. Regarding the sample after the 12 h reaction (Figure ), we cannot observe big LiCl particles any longer, whereas all particles are below 100 µm with neuron-network-like surfaces. When the reaction time reaches 24 h (Figure ), the obtained sample is not particle-like anymore and its surface resembles with piled sticks/dendrites. The profiles of P-, S-, and Cl-elements all overlapped well, implying a very uniform distribution of Li2S, P2S5and LiCl. This fact may explain why the subsequent calcination produces pure LPSC. At this point, we come to conclude that the key for producing high-purity LPSC is to mix all precursors as uniformly as possible prior to calcination, which should apply to both liquid-phase strategy and solid-phase strategy.

Figure 4

Temporal SEM and EDS mapping analysis of LPSC precursors after solvothermal treatments for 6 h a,b), 12 h c,d), and 24 h e,f), respectively, with two sets of magnifications of ×250 a,c,e) and ×10 000 b,d,f).

Afterward, the calcined product was comprehensively characterized with XRD refinement, XPS, Raman, SEM, and TEM. As shown in Figure for the Rietveld refinement, the computed XRD patterns are well consistent with the experimental data with the χ2 factor of only 1.15, implying the validity of the data processing and high purity of crystalline LPSC. Regarding XPS (Figure ), the peak-fitting for the Li 1s spectrum shows two sets of peaks centered at 55.09 and 53.96 eV, which can be identified as the Li element in LPSC and Li2S, respectively. The P 2p spectrum can be well fitted with merely one set of doublet peaks at 132.49 and 131.45 eV, corresponding to the P element in LPSC. As for the S 2p region, two components can be identified as the S element in LPSC and Li2S, respectively, according to their peak summits at 161.07/162.29 eV and 159.67/160.82 eV. Regarding the Cl 2p spectrum, as anticipated, one component as the Cl element in LPSC can fit well with the doublet peaks at 198.07/199.73 eV. In short, the XRD and XPS measurements confirm the phase-purity of the synthesized LPSC.

Figure 5

Rietveld refinement for the XRD patterns a) and XPS spectra b) of LPSC made from the solvothermal method using n-hexane; Raman spectra of LPSC prepared by the hexane-based solvothermal method after c) and before sintering (d, the orange curve), the black curve at the bottom is the P2S5precursor serves as a reference.

Then, as expected, the corresponding Raman spectrum (Figure ) presents the distinctive peaks of PS43− units at 197, 262, and 421 cm−1. However, in contrast to the THF-EtOH-based LPSC (Figure , Supporting Information), this n-hexane-based product displays a flat feature in the range of 1100–1700 cm−1, indicating the non-existence of carbon impurity. This merit benefits from the ease of removing n-hexane under heat due to its lower boiling point and lower polarity compared with EtOH and THF. Additionally, the Raman spectrum of the pre-calcined sample is shown in Figure . The strong signals of P2S5also corroborate with the XRD result (Figure ). The non-existence of Li3PS4signals, different from the case of THT (Figure ), may imply that P2S5is insoluble in n-hexane but slightly soluble in THT during the solvothermal process and that only the dissolved Li2S and P2S5can react with each other to generate Li3PS4. Conclusively, n-hexane is an excellent solvent for making high-quality LPSC containing neither Li3PO4nor C.

Subsequently, the corresponding SEM image (Figure ) shows that LPSC exists as big chunks piled from many small flake-like particles (as highlighted by the inset). The relevant EDS mappings exhibit uniformly distributed and -intense signals of P, S, and Cl (Figure ) with conformal overlaps, strongly indicating the compositional uniformity. Moreover, TEM provides higher magnifications to analyze small individual particles (Figure ). The bright field image (Figure ) reveals that the primary particles are smooth sheet-like, and the corresponding high-resolution TEM image (HRTEM, Figure ) of a small representative area illustrates ordered lattice fringes, whose single-segment distance is 0.280 nm (Figure ) and well consistent with the (222) faces of LPSC. For the same field of Figure , the corresponding high-angle annular dark field scanning TEM (HAADF-STEM) image (Figure ) provides complementary information. As HAADF-STEM takes images on the basis of electron-beam diffraction, the bright-dark contrast in an image reflects the atom numbers of elements (called z-contrast). The bright/dark area in Figure  corresponds to the dark/bright area in Figure , respectively, indicating the thick/thin region of the sample. The fairly uniform contrast for most parts of the particular area in Figure  implies the even distribution of all elements. The corresponding EDS mappings of P, S, and Cl (Figure ) have comparable profiles, whose contours are also more or less similar to the TEM images, implying again the uniformity of the sample compositions. At this point, taking together all the above-discussed results, we can conclude that a new liquid-phase method for making highly-pure and highly-crystalline LPSC has been developed.

Figure 6

Structural characterizations of the synthesized LPSC by using n-hexane as the solvent. a) SEM image and b–d) the corresponding EDS mappings, e,f) TEM and high-resolution TEM image, g) HAADF-TEM image, and h–j) the corresponding EDS mappings.

### 2.3 Generality of this Solvothermal Method to Other SSEs

After successfully synthesizing LPSC, we hoped to generalize the new method to make more kinds of SSEs. The model solvent was set as n-hexane, due to its simplest structure among all successful solvents. Excitingly, as shown in Figure , the XRD results have confirmed the success of making LGPS, LSPS, and NSPS. For LSPS, there is a diffraction peak of Li2SnS3impurity (as marked at 34°), which is due to the tendency of SnIV to thermodynamically reside in the six-fold coordination instead of the tetragonal coordination. The Rietveld refinements (Figure ) show excellent consistency between the computed data (LGPS-C, LSPS-C, and NSPS-C) and the experimental data (LGPS-E, LSPS-E, and NSPS-E), indicating samples’ high purity. Next, three SSEs were also characterized with SEM, EDS, XPS, and TEM. Similar to the case of LPSC, the SEM images for three new SSEs (Figures and , Supporting Information) show that the pre-calcined and calcined states present different morphologies; and the EDS analyses show that three SSEs are of uniform crystallinity. Regarding XPS spectra (Figure , Supporting Information), the peak fittings show that all elements have only one valence state with a singlet peak for Li and doublet peaks for other elements, confirming again the high purity of these SSEs. TEM images (Figures and , Supporting Information) and the corresponding EDS analyses also demonstrate that the respective elemental distributions coincide with the structural morphology, proving the compositional homogeneity. At this point, taking together all the above-discussed results, we can draw a conclusion that the solvothermal method is indeed a general method for synthesizing high-purity SSEs, which present diversified morphologies compared with those SSEs by the ball-milling method.

Figure 7

XRD results a) and the corresponding Rietveld refinements b–d) of LGPS, LSPS, and NSPS electrolytes synthesized by the solvothermal method.

### 2.4 Understanding on the Nature of Solvothermal Treatments

With the success of using alkanes-based liquid-phase methods to synthesize diverse SSEs, one puzzle arises as to why such solid precursors seem to have “dissolved-and-reprecipitated” to produce a uniformly-mixed amalgamate during the solvothermal treatments, as shown by the XRD and SEM results (Figures , ). We hypothesize that it may be because, at the atomic/molecular level, even nonpolar solvents can “dissolve” a certain number of solid units, particularly if facilitated with heat and stirring, sort of “everything is soluble to some extent in any solvent”. To test the hypothesis, we used n-hexane to solvothermally treat three precursors of Li2S, LiCl, and P2S5separately at 140 °C for 24 h. The XRD results of raw materials and the recollected solids after removing n-hexane are shown in Figure (Supporting Information). The respective comparisons show that the collected Li2S and LiCl powders present wider full widths at half-maxima (FWHMs) versus their pristine precursors, meaning smaller crystal sizes in the former cases (Figure , Supporting Information). Differently, the initially amorphous P2S5became crystalline, as shown by their initially peak-free and subsequently sharp-peak features, respectively (Figure , Supporting Information). Correspondingly, SEM images (Figure ; Figure , Supporting Information) visually illustrate morphological changes of all three precursors. The XRD and SEM results together seem to support the hypothesis. To gain a deeper understanding at the molecular level, we conducted density functional theory (DFT) calculation and found that at the solvothermal temperature, the adsorption energy of n-hexane on the surfaces of LiCl and Li2S are 4.90 and 12.87 eV, respectively. Such high energy values indicate that n-hexane is difficult to adsorb on the surfaces of these two substances (Figure , Supporting Information), and therefore unable to dissolve them, disproving the hypothesis. Then, how do those solid precursors actually get amalgamated in our alkane-based suspension method?

Hereby we suggest a new mechanism called “interparticle coupled unification (ICU)”, which means that solid particles in a heated and stirred solution can be transported by the Brownian motions of solvent molecules and collide with each other to become unified. This concept is proposed on the basis of several experimental findings. First, although the workable solvents cannot dissolve any SSE precursor (Li2S, P2S5, LiCl, GeS2, SnS2, or Na2S), all SSE powders when being heated with a model solvent n-hexane in solvothermal reactors change their morphologies of both particle sizes and shapes (Figure and , Supporting Information), but different from their mixtures’ morphologies (Figure ; Figures and , Supporting Information). A remarkable example is that LiCl crystals completely lost their crystallinity as shown by the absence of XRD peaks (Figure ) and the absence of SEM-observable particles (Figure ). Second, even in the conventional solution method of using twin solvents of THF and EtOH to synthesize Li6PS5Cl, there are neither Li6PS5Cl molecules in the solution nor crystals prior to high-temperature calcination (Figure , Supporting Information). When the premade Li3PS4intermediate is added into EtOH, it gets decomposed back to Li2S and P2S5, showing no existence of PS43− ions in the solution (Figure ). Third, while many solvents are found eligible, hydrocarbons not containing heteroatoms enable higher-purity products, with alkanes better than alkenes and arenes (Figure ). Fourth, multiple types of SSEs are successfully made, including both Li+-SSEs and Na+-SSEs (Figure ). Fifth, the synthetic method applies to various types of solid precursors, such as ionic crystal like Li2S, covalent amorphous like P2S5, and covalent crystal like GeS2. Then, the theoretical computation chose the LiCl-Li2S pair as a model system for studying the ICU process, because the structure of amorphous P2S5(a-P2S5) is unclear. The DFT calculations show that the surface energy of Li2S (100) and LiCl (110) is 0.176 and 0.03 eV, respectively, indicating the higher activity of Li2S (100) than that of LiCl (110). As Li2S (100) is terminated with lithium, it is more likely that the Cl atom in LiCl binds to the Li2S surface instead of the S atom in Li2S binding to the LiCl surface (Figure ). As shown in the energy diagram (Figure ), binding the first Cl atom to Li2S needs to overcome a kinetic barrier of 0.12 eV (IS → TS1) and release the energy of 1.67 eV. The feature is that the Cl atom coordinates with four Li atoms, being analogous to a “bridge” across Li2S and LiCl surfaces. The kinetic energies of the second and third Cl atoms binding to the Li2S (100) surface are 0.16 eV (IM2 → TS2) and 0.03 eV (IM4 → TS3), respectively. After the third Cl attaches to the Li2S surface, the top layer of the LiCl (110) surface is severely destroyed (Figure ). Eventually, a full layer of amorphous LiCl (a-LiCl) unifies on the crystalline Li2S (c-Li2S) surface, which is corroborated with the XRD observation of disappeared LiCl crystals and SEM observation of amalgamated morphologies. With the morphological change of P2S5, the entire process may be written as Equation . Although the calculation has only verified the binary pairs, it is believable that such an “ICU” mechanism shall also apply to the real ternary systems of synthesizing all SSEs herein, and may even apply to any suspension-based materials synthesis, regardless through physical or chemical reactions.

(3)

Figure 8

The proposed interaction mechanism of insoluble SSEs precursors in alkanes. a) Each structure of the unifying process, where IS, IM, TS, and FS in each reaction mechanism represent the initial state, intermediate, transition state, and final state, respectively. b) The energy diagram for the “interparticle coupled unification” process. c) The structure of the final state.

### 2.5 Battery Applications of the Synthesized Electrolytes

Subsequently, the exploration of battery applications using the solvothermally-synthesized SSEs selected LPSC\_Hexane as the model system with LPSC\_THF-EtOH as a comparison. The key is to check if LPSC\_Hexane with higher purity can present superior performance as expected. The ionic/electronic conductivities were measured using cold-pressed pellets. Figure displays the room-temperature electrochemical impedance spectra (EIS) for extracting ionic conductivity (σLi+). The relevant EIS spectra have been fitted with the following equivalent circuits (Figure , Supporting Information), of which the numerical values for all units are tabulated in Table (Supporting Information). Figure  illustrates the chronoamperometric data for extracting electronic conductivity (σe−). The σLi+ for LPSC\_Hexane is 6.1 mS cm−1 (Figure ), better than that of LPSC\_THF-EtOH (3.1 mS cm−1) and most counterparts synthesized by liquid-phase methods in the literature. Regarding σe−, the value for LPSC\_Hexane is 1.15 × 10−6 mS cm−1, similar to that of LPSC prepared by ball-milling approach, but favorably lower than that of LPSC\_THF-EtOH (1.61 × 10−5 mS cm−1). Besides, the obtained temperature-dependent (30–100 °C) ionic conductivities are shown in Figure . Following the Arrhenius equation of  their activation energy (Ea) values were extracted to be 0.260 and 0.295 eV for LPSC\_Hexane and LPSC\_THF-EtOH, respectively. The reasons for higher ionic conductivity and lower electronic conductivity of LPSC\_Hexane versus LPSC\_THF-EtOH can be ascribed to two reasons: higher purity and higher crystallinity. As shown by XRD data (Figure ), as in many conventional liquid-phase methods, LPSC\_THF-EtOH comprise of three impurities of Li3PO4, Li2S, and LiCl; but LPSC\_Hexane does not contain any of them, as shown by XRD data (Figure ) and Raman data (Figure ). A closer look at the XRD data reveals that all the diffraction peaks of LPSC\_Hexane are narrower than those of LPSC\_THF-EtOH, indicating larger crystals in LPSC\_Hexane according to the Scherrer equation. The ionic and electronic conductivity of LGPS, LSPS, and NSPS electrolytes prepared by the hexane-solvothermal method were also measured (as shown in Figure , Supporting Information) to be at least comparable with literature results.

Figure 9

The comparison of conductivity and activation energy between LPSC\_Hexane and LPSC\_THF-EtOH. a) The electrochemical impedance spectra for extracting ionic conductivity; b) The chronoamperometric (current−time) profiles for extracting electronic conductivity; c) Ionic conductivity and electronic conductivity shown with error bars; d) Arrhenius plots of the ionic conductivity.

Next, Li|LPSC|Li symmetric batteries were assembled to assess the compatibility of LPSC with Li anodes. Figure shows the critical current density (CCD) results of LPSC\_Hexane and LPSC\_THF-EtOH. With increasing the current intensity, while both types of batteries show a corresponding increase of the overpotential as expected, the Li|LPSC\_Hexane|Li cell is always lower than Li|LPSC\_THF-EtOH|Li due to its higher ion conductivity. When the current density reaches 0.51 mA cm−2, the Li|LPSC\_THF-EtOH|Li battery already experiences a short circuit with an overpotential of 0.023 V. In contrast, the Li|LPSC\_Hexane|Li battery gets short-circuited when the current density increases to 0.89 mA cm−2 with an overpotential of 0.031 V. The above results can be explained by the higher ion conductivity and lower electron conductivity of LPSC\_Hexane, stemming from its higher purity and higher crystallinity as shown above. Figure  shows the galvanostatic charge/discharge (GCD) cycle of both batteries at a fixed current intensity of 0.255 mA cm−2. The initial overpotential of Li|LPSC\_Hexane|Li and Li|LPSC\_THF-EtOH|Li presents 9.1 and 12.3 mV, respectively. As the cycle number increases, the overpotential of both symmetrical batteries decreases slightly. However, the Li|LPSC\_THF-EtOH|Li symmetric cell exhibited a sudden voltage decrease after 480 h, which is attributed to the short circuit in the cell (Figure , inset). Conversely, the Li|LPSC\_Hexane|Li symmetric cell could transport a stable cycle over 700 h without a short circuit. The EIS spectra of LPSC\_Hexane versus LPSC\_THF-EtOH prior to and after testing for CCD are shown in Figure (Supporting Information). Being consistent with the trend of polarization voltages, the former presents a smaller impedance than the latter. The EIS spectra after CCD show impedance in the fourth quadrant, being consistent with their states of being short-circuited. Regarding the cells for galvanostatic charging/discharging, the LPSC\_Hexane cell also shows a smaller impedance as expected (Figure , Supporting Information). In short, understandably, the LPSC\_ Hexane cell has a better Li/SSE interface.

Figure 10

a) Voltage profile of Li|LPSC|Li two-electrode cell tested at step-increase current density/capacity under room temperature; b) Voltage profile of galvanostatic charge/discharge Li|LPSC|Li symmetric cell, the cell cycle at a current density of 0.255 mA cm−2.

Last, Li-In|LPSC|LPSC-NCM811 full batteries were assembled to assess the potential of LPSC for SSBs (Figure ). The mass loading of NCM811 was 35.7 mg cm−2, the voltage range was 2.10−3.78 V, and the charging/discharging rates were 1/5 C for the first three cycles and then 1 C for the rest of their lives. Excitingly, the LPSC\_hexane battery not only shows a high specific capacity of 137 mAh g−1 but also presents stable cyclability (Figure ) with the capacity retention exceeding 84% after 500 cycles (i.e., 115 mAh g−1, corresponding to only 0.032% decay per cycle) and the coulombic efficiency always above 99.8%. For the LPSC\_THF-EtOH battery, the specific capacity is 118.5 mAh g−1 initially, which decays to 96.8 mAh g−1 after 500 cycles (capacity retention rate is 82%, corresponding to only 0.037% decay per cycle). The rate capability of two types of batteries is shown in Figure . The LPSC\_Hexane battery presented excellent performance, that is, small magnitudes of capacity decrease from 166 mAh g−1 at 1/5 C to 118 mAh g−1 at 3 C (67% retention), with barely any deviation within each rate, and back to 165 mAh g−1 at 1/5 C (99.3% recovery). The LPSC\_THF-EtOH battery is obviously inferior, that is, the capacity decreases from 163 mAh g−1 at 1/5 C to 99 mAh g−1 at 3 C (61% retention), but larger deviation within each rate, and back to 158 mAh g−1 at 1/5 C (97.2% recovery). The battery performances of LGPS and LSPS in Li-In/SSE/SSE-NCM811 full cells (Figure , Supporting Information) are mediocre but understandable due to their ordinary properties.

Figure 11

Battery performance of LPSC\_Hexane and LPSC\_THF-EtOH by constructing Li-In/LPSC/LPSC-NCM811 batteries. a) The cycling stability, where the first three cycles were at the rate of 1/5 C and the following cycles were at the rate of 1 C; b,c) The corresponding rate capability for and LPSC\_Hexane and LPSC\_THF-EtOH.

3 Conclusion
------------

In conclusion, we have reported a general liquid-phase solvothermal method of synthesizing high-performance sulfide solid electrolytes (SSEs) for solid-state batteries (SSBs) and also proposed that the key function of suspension-based solvothermal treatments is materials amalgamation through the “interparticle coupled unification” effect. The methodology development started by investigating why there always be Li3PO4impurity in the Li6PS5Cl electrolyte made by the conventional THF-EtOH dual-solvent method. The culprit lies in the oxygen atoms in THF and EtOH, which tend to be replaced by the sulfur atoms in both the precursor P2S5and the intermediate Li3PS4, generating tetrahydrothiophene, diethyl O, O, O-triethylphosphorothioate, dithiophosphoric acid, and 1, 2-dithiane. This issue motivated us to explore a solvothermal method using O-free single-component solvents. Many solvents were tested and five of them were eligible for making phase-pure electrolytes, including tetrahydrothiophene, n-hexane, cyclohexane, 2,2,4-trimethylpentane, and 1-methyl cyclohexane. The synthesized SSEs include Li6PS5Cl, Li10GeP2S12, Li10SnP2S12and Na11Sn2PS12. The generality of the solvothermal method inspired us to discover its fundamental function of materials amalgamation that has three major features: 1) the key function of all liquid-phase methods for making SSEs is to uniformly amalgamate precursors; 2) the materials amalgamation for suspension-type methods relies on an “interparticle coupled unification” effect, where solvent molecules only serve as carriers to enhance the particle movements; 3) the “interparticle coupled unification” requires the involved interaction to be thermodynamically spontaneous and kinetically feasible. Compared with conventional liquid-phase methods, the synthesized SSEs herein are of higher-purity without Li3PO4and C impurities and show high-performance for SSBs. All three Li+-SSEs show the ionic conductivities above 4 mS cm−1 and the activation energy lower than 0.3 eV, better than the counterparts made by most liquid-phase methods. The electronic conductivities are at the order of 10−5–10−6 mS cm−1, comparable with literature values. To the best of our knowledge, the LSPS herein is the first example made by a liquid-phase method. Remarkably, the LPSC\_Hexane made by the new method is superior to the LPSC\_THF-EtOH made by the conventional method in all performance comparisons. Additionally, this new solvothermal method is not only effective for synthesizing high-quality SSEs but also a green approach having practical potential, because it meets all the applicable criteria of green-chemistry (5 out of 12 items). First, there are no wastes to clean up at the end of the entire process, because there are no byproducts at all and the only auxiliary reagents of solvent can be recycled for repetitive usage (Figure , Supporting Information). Second, the atom economy is ≈100%, because all precursors are insoluble in the employed solvents at room temperature and their mixture is all collectible for the next step of calcination. Third, the hydrocarbon solvents are not hazardous or toxic (Table , Supporting Information). Fourth, not only the involved solvents are safe during the process of storage and handling, but also the solvothermal conditions are user friendly because of using medium temperatures and pressures. Fifth, the energy efficiency is high, because of running the reaction at low temperatures and no need of distilling the employed solvents.

4 Experimental Section
----------------------

#### Materials

Molecular sieves (4Å, Shanghai Ailan) were activated in a muffle furnace at 500 °C for 12 h before use. N-Hexane (Anhydrous, 99%), cyclohexane (Anhydrous, 99%), 2-2-4-trimethylpentane (Anhydrous, 98%), toluene (Anhydrous, 98%), 1-hexene (Anhydrous, 98%) were purchased from Shanghai Aladdin Biochemical Technology Co., Ltd and were dried with molecular sieves overnight before use. Ethanol (EtOH, Anhydrous, 99.8%) was purchased from Tianjin Yuanli Chemical Co., Ltd and dried with molecular sieves overnight before use. Tetrahydrofuran (THF, 99.9%) was purchased from Shanghai Aladdin Biochemical Technology Co., Ltd and dried by refluxing in the presence of sodium and benzophenone, then distilled out after the solution turned dark blue.

The commercial Li6PS5Cl was purchased from Hefei Kejing Material Technology Co., Ltd. Li foil (99.9%, Alfa Aesar), In foil (99.9%, Alfa Aesar), LiCl (Shanghai Aladdin, 99.9%), P2S5(LuoEn, 99.9%), Li2S (homemade according to the previous report), GeS2(Shanghai Bide, 99.9%) and SnS2(Shanghai Bide, 99.9%) were used as received. The anhydrous Na2S powder was obtained by heating the raw material Na2S·xH2O (Tianjin Damao, 99.5%) under vacuum at 90 °C for 2 h and then at 220 °C for 4 h. LiNi0.7Co0.2Mn0.1O2(NCM811) was synthesized according to the previous publication. For the preparation of Li6PS5Cl by “de novo liquid phase method”, Li3PS4-3THF, and amorphous Li3PS4by liquid method, please refer to the previous report.

#### Synthesis of Li6PS5Cl, Li10GeP2S12, Li10SnP2S11and Na11Sn2PS12by the “Solvothermal Method”

Stoichiometric mixtures Li2S, LiCl, P2S, GeS2SnS2, and Na2S of the respective precursors were added to the solvent (e.g., n-hexane) and sealed in a PTFE-lined stainless steel reactor. The reactor was heated at 140 °C under stirring for 24 h, and then cooled naturally. The mixture was transferred into a centrifuge tube and centrifugated for 6 min at 8000 rpm. The supernatant was dried vacuum at room temperature for 2 h to collect the solid precipitate. Last, the precipitate was heated at 550 °C for 5 h in an argon atmosphere to obtain the targeted electrolytes.

#### Materials Characterization

X-ray diffraction (XRD, Rigaku Smartlab9KW, Japan,) was employed to characterize solid materials, using Cu Kα radiation (λ= 0.15 406 nm). The XRD samples were typically prepared in a glove box by spreading sample powders onto glass substrates covered with dome-like polyimide films. The scanning range was 10–70° at the rate of 15° min−1. Rietveld refinements were performed by Total Pattern Solution (TOPAS) software, for which the XRD patterns were recorded in the range of 10–140° at the rate of 5° min−1. Morphological and elemental analysis was performed on field emission scanning electron microscope (FESEM, FEI Apreo S LoVac, Czech) with the EDS (Energy Dispersive X-Ray Spectroscopy) function and transmission electron microscope (TEM, FEI Talos F200X, American) with the electron diffraction (ED) function. The X-ray photoelectron spectrometer (XPS, ESCALAB 250Xi, English) was employed to determine the identities and oxidation states of elements. Before taking XPS spectra, the sample surfaces were bombarded with Ar+-ions to etch the top layer of 50 nm. The gas chromatography-mass spectroscopy (GC-MS) was performed on GCMS-QP2010 SE (Tsushima, Japan). For the GC-MS analysis of ethanol solution for LPSC, at the end of ethanol treatment in the “de novo” synthesis, some ethanol solution was dried on a piece of filter paper. Then, the filter paper was soaked in THF to extract the soluble chemicals. Last, the THF solution was analyzed with GC-MS. The structural units of the samples were identified by Raman spectroscopy (Renishaw, inVin reflex, English) with a laser power of 8 mW and wavelength of 785 nm.

For measuring the ionic conductivity of SSEs, 130 mg of SSE powder was first placed in a polyaldehyde mold and then pressed into a pellet by applying 360 MPa pressure through two stainless steel rods. The two dies also served as the electrical contacts for the subsequent ionic-conductivity measurements. The thickness of the electrolyte pellet was measured by a spiral micrometer; and the cross-sectional area was 1 cm. Then, the mold was fastened with screws, which were isolated from the stainless-steel rods through Teflon washers. Next, the sealed box holding the assembled electrolyte set was put inside a thermostatic oven with the temperature controlled in the range of 30–100 °C. PARSTAT MC (PMC) electrochemical workstation was employed to measure the electrochemical impedance spectra (EIS). The alternating voltage was 10 mV in amplitude and 1 Hz to 10 MHz in frequency. The ionic conductivity (σ) was calculated according to the Equation ofσ= d/AR, where d was the pellet thickness, A was the pellet cross-section area and R was the pellet resistance.

Li|Li6PS5Cl|Li symmetric batteries were assembled to assess the compatibility of LPSC with Li anodes. First, SSEs were ground with a mortar for 5 min to form a fine powder. Then, 130 mg of solid electrolyte powder was placed into a polyaldehyde cylinder and pressed at 250 MPa for 10 s (10 mm diameter). Second, two lithium foils with a diameter of 10 mm were pasted on both sides of the electrolyte. Third, the electrolyte layer and lithium metal on both sides were compressed together under 25 MPa. Finally, fixed the mold battery with screws to maintain a constant pressure of 5 MPa for testing at room temperature. The initial current was 0.1 mA (equivalent to 0.127 mA cm−2), with an increase of 0.1 mA (0.127 mA cm−2) after each charge/discharge cycle and a 5-m interval between two cycles.

All solid state lithium batteries in full-cell configuration employing the synthesized SSEs of Li6PS5Cl, Li10GeP2S12, Li10SnP2S11in combination with an NCM811 cathode and a Li–In anode were assembled in an argon-filled glovebox. First, SSEs were ground with a mortar for 5 min to form a fine powder. Then, 70 mg of solid electrolyte powder was placed into a polyaldehyde cylinder and pressed at 360 MPa for 10 s (10 mm diameter). Second, the fine powder together with NCM811 in a mass ratio of 7:3, and ground manually for ≈5 min to fully mix to obtain a composite cathode mixture. Then, 40 mg of the composite cathode mixture (corresponding to an aerial loading of 35.7 mg cm−2) was spread and pressed at 360 MPa for 20 s on one side of the electrolyte pellet. On the other side of the pellet, a thin indium foil (10 mm in diameter, 99.99%, 0.1 mm in thickness) was attached. Third, 1 mg of Li foil (aladdin, 99.9%) was pressed into a thin layer (≈5 mm diameter) and placed over the indium foil. Finally, after all the components were compressed together under 360 MPa to form ASSLB, the mold was tightened with metal screws and sent to battery tests. For testing the cyclability, galvanostatic measurements at 60 °C were performed on LAND battery analyzers by using 1/5 C rate for the first three cycles and then using a 1 C rate for the rest cycles, with the charge/discharge voltage of 2.10/3.78 V. EIS measurements were conducted for full batteries after 0th, 5th, 10th, 30th, and 50th cycles. For measuring the rate capability, the batteries were cycled for five cycles at each rate of 1/5 C, 1/2 C, 1 C, 2 C, 3 C, and then back to 1/5 C.

Theoretical calculations for the reaction mechanisms were carried out by using spin-polarized density functional theory (DFT) with Perdew-Burke-Ernzerhof (PBE) generalized gradient approximation implemented in VASP 5.4.4. The cutoff energy of the plane-wave basis set was 450 eV and 2 × 2 × 1 Monkhorst-Pack k-point meshes were used for Brillouin zone integration. Atomic positions were optimized until the forces were less than 0.02 eV Å−1. Transition states were searched by climbing image nudged elastic-band method (CI-NEB) and further confirmed by vibrational frequency analysis. LiCl (110)–Li2S (100)–p (2 × 2) was built with a separation of 4.5 Å in the slab model with the cell parameters ofa= 15.36 Å,b= 15.36 Å. The structure consists of four layers, where the bottom two layers were frozen while the remaining layers were allowed to relax. Long-range electron correlations responsible for van der Waals interactions were treated by the Becke–Johnson D3 semiempirical correction.

Conflict of Interest
--------------------

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

