

1 Introduction
--------------

All-solid-state lithium batteries (ASSLBs) using inorganic solid electrolytes have been considered as one of the most promising candidates for next-generation batteries due to the great potential to achieve high energy density and the eminent safety compared with conventional lithium-ion batteries (LIBs) containing liquid electrolytes. Much progress has been made in developing ASSLBs of sorts. Among various kinds of solid-state electrolytes (SSEs), sulfide SSEs show highest ionic conductivity comparable to organic liquid electrolytes of 12–25 S cm−1. Furthermore, the low Young's modulus of sulfide SSEs enable a facile manufacture of pellets only by cold pressing. Accordingly, ASSLBs based on sulfide solid electrolyte are attracting extensive attention.

Unfortunately, despite of the advantages described above, the application of sulfide-based ASSLBs is still impeded when coupled with transitional metal oxide cathodes such as LiCoO2and LiNixMnyCo1−x−yO2(NMC), which is attributed to the catastrophic interfacial issues including severe interfacial reaction and mechanical failure. It is worth noting that the Li-ion transport dynamics depends not only on the conductivity of electrolytes, but also on the interfacial chemistry. Due to the narrow electrochemical windows of sulfide SSEs and high work potential of transitional metal oxide cathodes, undesirable and poor ion-conducting decomposition products accumulate in the interface between cathode materials and SSEs, increasing interfacial resistance and deteriorating cell performance. Along with the chemical and electrochemical instability of sulfide SSEs, continuous volume change of transitional metal oxide cathodes during cycle with its high Young's modulus is also problematical. The local stress induced by volume change may cause cracks between active materials and SSEs until contact loss and cell failure. Owing to above issues, most of reported sulfide-based ASSLBs exhibit limited cycle stability (less than 200 cycles) and low capacity retention, which is far away from practical application. Only very recently, Ye et al. and Tan et al. enabled stably cycle of sulfide-based ASSLBs with transitional metal oxide cathodes by applying a coating layer and a high axial pressure simultaneously. Accordingly, it is imperative to alleviate the interfacial issues of sulfide-based ASSLBs and improve the cycle stability by a facile method.

Organic compounds constitute an important class of electrodes due to the environmental benign, eco-efficient production and disposal, and the tunable structures towards higher capacity and/or potentials. In particular, the renewable nature makes organic compounds an alternative for transitional metal oxide cathodes considering the scarcity of Co or Ni. Nevertheless, the high solubility of organic electrode materials in organic liquid electrolytes handicaps their electrochemical performance and result in fast capacity fading. A variety of strategies have been proposed to restrain the dissolution of organic electrode materials including insoluble conductive backbone anchoring, molecular polymerization, molecular structure design, coated separator blocking, and enhancement of polarity via salt formation. Nonetheless, most of them only mitigate the dissolution rather than prohibit. The partnership of organic electrodes and SSEs enables a solid confinement, thereby prohibiting the dissolution of organic electrode materials and benefiting the cycle stability. On the other hand, the modest redox potentials and low Young's modulus of organic electrode materials are sovereign remedy for the interfacial issues mentioned above. The modest redox potentials avoid SSEs from rapid decomposition and therefore steeply increased interfacial resistance, and the low Young's modulus is propitious to the conformal contact between active materials and SSEs without forming cracks and contact loss. Nevertheless, the employments of organic electrode in ASSLBs seems to be ignored. Up to present, only several groups demonstrated the feasibility of Li-organic ASSLBs until very recent years. However, the cycle stability can be further improved and some questions still need to be answered. In particular, the (electro)chemical stability of sulfide electrolytes in organic-based ASSLBs have not been elucidated.

In this work, an organic quinone cathode, 5,7,12,14-pentacenetetrone (PT), with a high theoretical specific capacity of 317 mAh g−1 and a modest work potential of 2.1 V versus Li+/Li, is used as cathode materials. The severe dissolution behaviors of PT in organic liquid electrolytes verified by electrochemical test is settled in ASSLBs. Sulfide 70Li2S-30P2S5glass ceramic (LPS) is chosen due to its fast ion transport and high ductility. In addition, we modulate the types of carbon additives in composite cathode to optimize the electrochemical performance due to the various types of carbon additives exert different influences on the extent of decomposition of SSEs as revealed by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). Based on the complementary analyses including in-situ X-ray diffraction (XRD), magic angle spinning nuclear magnetic resonance (MAS NMR) and in-situ electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS), the results demonstrate that the extent of decomposition of SSEs is limited and the corresponding effects of interlayer on electrochemical performance are reversible. Besides, benefited from low Young's modulus of PT and LPS, intimate contact is maintained after long term cycling as shown by scanning electron microscopy (SEM). All these factors converge to an outstanding interfacial stability with a capacity retention of 90.6% after 500 cycles in PT-based ASSLBs, a high reversible capacity of 312 mAh g−1 is obtained simultaneously. Moreover, electrochemically active Chevrel-phase Mo6S8with fast lithium intercalation reactions and high electrical conductivity was employed to substitute inactive carbon in composite cathode to further increase the rate capability and power density. With the aid of Mo6S8, the PT-based ASSLBs show an improved redox kinetics, therefore, deliver a high specific capacity of 220 mAh g−1 at 1C and a capacity retention of 82.5% after 370 cycles.

2 Results and Discussion
------------------------

### 2.1 Electrochemical Performance of Li-PT Liquid Cells

The purity and morphology of PT sample was examined by XRD and SEM, and the results were displayed in Figures and (Supporting Information), respectively. Furthermore, the mechanical properties of PT were investigated by nanoindentation test (Figure , Supporting Information), which delivers an average Young's modulus of 6.19 GPa for PT, which is two orders of magnitude lower than that of transitional metal oxide cathodes. Prior to the fabrication of all-solid-state batteries, we investigated the electrochemical behavior of PT electrode in cells with liquid electrolytes (i.e., 1 m LiTFSI in DOL/DME = 1:1 by volume, 1 wt% LiNO3). The typical Li-PT coin cell was used to perform the galvanostatic charge/discharge test, and the achieved results are given in Figure . The Li-PT cell delivers a specific capacity of ≈325 mAh g−1 upon first discharge to 1.5 V versus Li+/Li at 0.1 C, which is close to the theoretical value based on the four-electron redox between C22H10O4and Li+4-C22H10O44- (Figure , Supporting Information), suggesting the almost complete reduction of PT. A little bit higher of initial discharge capacity than theoretical capacity may result from the adsorption capacitance of Ketjenblack in PT electrode. Whereas, it shows a steep capacity decay with cycles, with a capacity retention of only 40.6% after 200 cycles, which is conjectured to be aroused from the dissolution of PT. To valid our hypothesis, the Li-PT cell using transparent glass bottle was fabricated to enable the facile observation of dissolution behavior (Figure ). Although the pristine cell stayed transparent without visible change, the color of electrolytes gradually turned to dark green as the discharge proceeded, demonstrating the distinct dissolution behavior of lithiated PT. These findings suggest that dissolution and shuttle effect of PT after discharge impede the exertion of PT-based liquid batteries and the solid confine method is needed to solved the challenge ultimately.

Figure 1

Electrochemical performance and dissolution behaviors in Li-PT liquid cell. a) The galvanostatic charge/discharge curves and b) cycle performance of Li-PT coin cell with liquid electrolytes at 0.1 C. The test voltage range is 1.5–3.5 V. The dissolution behavior of PT leads to the initial rapid capacity loss and low capacity retention of 40.6% after 200 cycles. c) Discharge profile of Li-PT liquid cell using glass bottle and corresponding color change in the liquid electrolytes. The dissolution behavior reflected by color becomes severe with discharge, indicating the dissolution occurs to PT after lithiation. The mass loading of both cells is 1 mg cm−2.

### 2.2 Optimization of Carbon Additives in All-Solid-State Batteries

LPS solid electrolytes was synthesized as reported in the literature. This glass ceramic SSEs are obtained via metastable crystalline Li7P3S11phase precipitating from mother glass when annealed. The structure, morphology and electrochemical properties of LPS can be found in Figures (Supporting Information). XRD pattern of LPS reveals its glass ceramic nature, and the diffraction peaks observed can be identified as crystalline Li7P3S11. EIS results show that the ionic conductivity of the cold pressed LPS solid electrolyte was measured to be 1.38 × 10−3 S cm−1 at room temperature, which is in accordance with literature. The comparison of Young's modulus between PT/LPS and other electrode materials/SSEs is displayed in Figure (Supporting Information). To valid the compatibility of PT and LPS, the Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy was conducted on the mixture of PT and LPS with mass ratio of 1:1, the pure phase LPS and PT acted as reference. As shown in Figure (Supporting Information), FTIR spectra shows the characteristic peak of the mixture is simple superposition of PT and LPS, demonstrating that there is no interaction between PT and LPS, therefore feasible for simultaneous employment.

All-solid-state cells were assembled with PT/LPS/carbon as composite cathode, LPS as electrolytes and Li as anode considering the kinetically stable interface between LPS and Li. The compatibility of LPS with Li metal anode was also verified by Li | Li7P3S11| Li symmetrical cell (Figure , Supporting Information). Owing to the insulating nature of PT, carbon additives is indispensable to achieve the fast redox kinetics and desired current density. However, the inclusion of carbon in the composite cathode facilitates faster electrochemical redox of theortho-thiophosphate (P2S74−, dimers) andpyro-thiophosphate (PS43−, monomers) in LPS by transferring the high/low chemical potential of lithium in the discharged/charged state deeper into the SSEs and extending the decomposition region, resulting ionically insulating species accumulation and deterioration of cell performance. Consequently, the types of carbon additives need to be chosen carefully to make a balance.

As shown in Figure , three types of carbon additives with different specific surface area and morphologies were evaluated in all-solid-state cells at 0.1 C including vapor-grown carbon fiber (VGCF, 10.6 m2 g−1), Super P (50.9 m2 g−1) and Ketjenblack (1330.9 m2 g−1) with increased specific surface area (Figure and Table , Supporting Information). Besides, a composite cathode without carbon additives was also employed. Unless stated otherwise, all composite cathodes were mixed by a pestle and mortar. With a first-cycle discharge specific capacity of only 139 mAh g−1, it is obvious that the utilization of PT is insufficient when no carbon additives exist owing to the lack of electronic percolation. When the specific surface area of carbon increase, the first-cycle discharge specific capacity improves in response. Cell with Ketjenblack delivers highest initial discharge capacity but shows a steep decrease in the subsequent cycles somewhat. We hypothesize that the phenomenon is attributed to the dramatic increase in the interfacial resistance caused by the extensive decomposition of LPS considering the ultrahigh specific surface area of Ketjenblack. In order to verify the scenario, surface sensitive XPS was conducted on the four different composite cathodes after first discharge to study the degree of electrolytes reduction (Figure ). Typically, the resulting S 2p signal of pristine LPS can be described with two doublet peaks (Figure , Supporting Information). The signal around 161.6 eV is assigned to the terminal sulfur bonds (PSLi) and PS due to their close binding energy, while the other around 163.2 eV is attributed to the bridging sulfur bonds (PSP) in the P2S74− structural unit. The S 2p spectra of cathode without carbon additives shows little differences with that of pristine LPS, suggesting no reduction of LPS occurs. When VGCF or Super P with moderate specific surface area was integrated into composite cathode, the new doublet peaks around 160.1 eV assigned to reductive species S2− emerged, indicating slight reduction of LPS might happen. In stark contrast, the relative intensity of S2− signal is greatly enhanced with P−S−P signal almost vanished in composite cathode with Ketjenblack, demonstrating the low capacity retention of cell with Ketjenblack originates from the substantial resistive decomposition products accumulation in the interface of SSE/carbon and corroborating our assumption. Considering the discussion above, composite cathode with Super P was chosen for further investigation due to the good balance between maximizing the utilization of PT and minimizing the SSEs decomposition.

Figure 2

Effect of carbon additives types on the electrochemical performance of all-solid-state Li-PT cells at 0.1 C at 60 °C. a) Galvanostatic charge/discharge profiles of all-solid-state cells with various carbon additives in the composite cathode. The test voltage range is 1.5–3.5 V. b) XPS spectra of the composite cathode with various carbon additives after discharged to 1.5 V. In the S 2p spectra, the doublets of P−S−P (≈163.2 eV, orange doublet), PSLi and PS (≈161.6 eV, blue doublet), and S2− (≈160.1 eV, green doublet) are visible.

### 2.3 Evaluation for Cathode Interfacial Stability of Li | LPS | PT-LPS-Super P All-Solid-State Cells

On account of the limitation that XPS measurement only detects the surface region of ≈10 nm, other complementary characterization techniques should be adopted to further valid the (electro) chemical compatibility between PT and LPS in the range of 1.5–3.5 V. As often observed in the literature for sulfide SSEs, chemical or electrochemical decomposition products of SSEs including oxidation species S, Li3PO4and reduction species Li2S, can be characterized with XRD. Hence, bulk sensitive in situ XRD was employed to the composite cathode side of cell during the first discharge–charge process in order to gain more detailed chemical insights into the potential LPS decomposition in the bulk PT-based composite cathode (Figure ). The XRD patterns upon the initial cycle are displayed in Figure , all diffraction peaks can be indexed to PT, Li7P3S11and Be window. It is unambiguous that no new peak or halo arises through the whole measurement, depicting no detectable decomposition products emerged. What's more, no noticeable peak position shift is observed, which is reported to be induced by kinetically favorable lithiation/delithiation upon redox of SSEs before decomposing into more stable products. These results demonstrate a significantly improved (electro)chemical compatibility between LPS and PT compared with transitional metal oxide cathodes. However, these patterns also show the peak intensity of Li7P3S11decreases upon cycling, suggesting the volume fraction of crystalline Li7P3S11reduced. Since the loss of peak intensity was not accompanied with new peak formation, amorphization was speculated to occur in Li7P3S11. In order to rule out the possibility that amorphization was induced by decomposition of crystalline Li7P3S11into resistive glassy products, other characterization methods should be implemented due to XRD measurement is insufficient for accurate identification of glassy phase.

Figure 3

Investigation of stability for LPS during cycle. a) In situ XRD patterns collected during the first discharge/charge of all-solid-state Li-PT cell at 0.1 C and 60 °C between 1.5 and 3.5 V. The blue patterns were obtained during discharge process and the red patterns were collected during charge process. b,c) Corresponding contour map of in situ XRD patterns. d) Deconvolution of NMR 31P spectrum for the pristine composite cathode. Red and blue-dashed spectra are the signal obtained from measurements and deconvolution, respectively. The spectrum can be deconvolution into six components: PS43− and P2S74− structural units in the crystalline Li7P3S11(dark blue), distort PS43− tetrahedra in the crystalline Li7P3S11(purple), PS43- glass (light blue), P2S74− glass (green), and P2S64− glass (pink). e) NMR 31P spectra of composite cathode at different states. The difference between the pristine composite cathode and the cycled composite cathode is marked as purple-filled areas.

To this end, 31P MAS NMR spectroscopy which is reliable techniques for elucidating the local structure of materials, was performed to reveal the structural units not only in the crystalline Li7P3S11but also in the glassy counterpart of the glass ceramics. It is reported that the broad signals from the amorphous phases lie below the sharp peaks from the crystalline phases. As shown in Figure , the 31P spectra of uncycled composite cathode can be deconvoluted into three crystalline components and three amorphous components, the two pronounced peaks at 87.4 and 91.5 ppm agree with the chemical shifts (δ) for PS43- and P2S74− structural units in the crystalline Li7P3S11respectively, and the two broad features centered at δ = 85.6 and 94 ppm are attributed to glassy counterpart. The minor features at δ = 89.5 and 99.5 can attribute to the small amount distort PS43− tetrahedra and glassy P2S64−, respectively. After discharging to 1.5 V in the first cycle, the percentage of signal area between δ = 85 and 92.5 ppm decreases from 78.3% to 76.3%, depicting the reduction of the crystalline Li7P3S11phase. Simultaneously, the percentage of signal area at δ < 85 ppm and δ > 92.5 ppm increases from 11.3% to 12.9% and from 10.4% to 10.9%, respectively, indicating the formation of glassy PS43- and P2S74− (Figure ). Upon charging to 3.5 V, the same tendency is more evident indicated by the increased purple filled area (δ < 85 ppm and δ > 92.5 ppm: 75.7%, δ < 85 ppm: 13.5%, δ > 92.5 ppm: 10.9%), in line with the XRD results. More importantly, no new features appear in the course of this cycle (Figure , Supporting Information), suggesting that the local structure of LPS was scarcely changed no matter in the crystalline or glassy phases. These observations demonstrate that amorphization of Li7P3S11in the process only resulted in the increase of ion-conductive glass in the glass ceramic, rather than other undesired resistive glass. While the reasons for amorphization is unclear yet but may be related to continuous strain of PT during cycles. A detailed discussion of the impact of crystalline Li7P3S11converting into glassy PS43- and P2S74− in the glass ceramic on cell performance is summarized in Note (Supporting Information). All results above show an outstanding (electro)chemical compatibility between LPS and PT.

One may feel paradoxical about the surface sensitive XPS results and the bulk sensitive XRD/NMR results. However, it is noteworthy that the lithiation/delithiation is faster near the current collector when electronic conduction is the kinetically limiting factor, and it is plausible in our case given the ratio of SSEs and carbon in the composite cathode. In consequence, it is reasonable that the SSEs near current collector went through a more severe decomposition than that closer to separate. Be that as it may, the decomposition of SSEs near current collector is still slight in XPS and below the detection limit of XRD/NMR.

Although the decomposition of SSEs is slight, how the limited decomposition will exert influence on interfacial kinetics of cells is unknown. To monitor the impedance evolution, in situ EIS was conducted to Li | LPS | PT-LPS-Super P cells during galvanostatic cycling in the first two cycles, corresponding discharge/charge profiles are shown in Figure . Nyquist plots of the cell at selected discharged/charged states are shown in Figure (Supporting Information), which show a reversible evolution upon the first two discharge–charge processes. For further analyses, several impedance contributions were separated and fitted with equivalent circuit R(RQ)(RQ)(RQ)Q where Q represents a constant phase element, details of fitting Nyquist plots can be found in Figures and and Note (Supporting Information). In accordance with the literature,RSSE,Rint,Rct,RAnoderepresents the electrolytes resistance, interlayer resistance caused by electrolytes decomposition, interfacial charge transfer between PT and SSEs, and Li/SSEs interfacial resistance, respectively. The fitting results of impedance spectra and their evolution during operation are displayed in Figure .RSSEwas constant across the measurement approximately, andRAnodewas fixed when fitting as explained in Note (Supporting Information).Rctwent through a reversible variation probably depending on the extent of lithiation, given that lithiated PT is capable to conduct Li+ more or less to boost charge transfer. Particular attention is paid toRint, because it is a direct indicator to elucidate how much influence the slight decomposition of SSEs can exert on the cell performance.

Figure 4

Electrochemical impedance and XPS evolution of all-solid-state Li-PT cell at 60 °C. a) The galvanostatic charge/discharge curves of all-solid-state Li-PT cell cycled at 0.1 C for 1 h and 0.5 h rest. b) Evolution of impedance values for different components during the initial two cycles. c) S 2p and d) P 2p XPS spectra of the cathode at different states during the discharge–charge process.

It is clear thatRintwas not much changed in the whole discharge process, implying the slight reduction of LPS contributed little to overall resistance. In the charge process, theRintstill stayed stable around 14 Ω cm2 at most time, once it reached 3 V, a significant increase ofRintwas seen and further to 39.2 Ω cm2 when charged to 3.5 V. In the subsequent cycle,Rintreverted to 11 Ω cm2 at 1.5 V during the second discharge and remained low until the second charging process. Such anRintdifference between full charge state and full discharge state originates from the different conductive properties of decomposition products, as previous literature work about sulfide SSEs reporting that oxidative decomposition products are much more insulating than reductive ones. Furthermore, reversible behavior ofRintwas observed, which was inferred to be a consequence of reversible conversion between oxidative decomposition products and reductive decomposition products. We note that the oxidative decomposition products described here contains oxidative products of both LPS and reductive decomposition products of LPS. To further confirm the reversibility of oxidative decomposition products, XPS was carried out at different states (Figure ). Compared with S 2p spectra after first discharge, S2− signal disappears and P−S−P signal increases with a slight shift to higher binding energy are observed in the spectra obtained after first charge. This means S2−/ PS43− not only oxidize to P2S74− which is one of the structural units constituting LPS, but also to a fraction of P nP-type anions (P2Sn) and Li2Snwith increasing numbern(i.e., the relative amount of bridging sulfur atoms increases), which is more insulating and is the root for higher impedance after oxidation. After the second discharge, the S 2p spectra return to be similar to that after first discharge, indicating the good reversibility of oxidative resistive products which is beneficial for prolonged cycle of cells. In addition, P 2p spectra show homologous reversible intensity changes as S 2p spectra, which verifies the reversibility of oxidative resistive products again. It is also noteworthy that the XPS technique only detects surface region rather than bulk region. By contrast, irreversible oxidative decomposition occurs in LPS when employing transitional metal oxide cathodes with higher potentials, which deteriorates interfacial kinetics therefore electrochemical performance of cells.

### 2.4 Electrochemical Performance of Li | LPS | PT-LPS-Super P All-Solid-State Cells and Elucidation of Capacity Contribution

In order to demonstrate the electrochemical performance, galvanostatic measurements were conducted on the Li | LPS | PT-LPS-Super P all-solid-state cells in the voltage range of 1.5–3.5 V versus Li+/Li. As depicted in Figure , it delivers a reversible capacity of 304 mAh g−1 at 0.1 C and 155 mAh g−1 at 2 C, testifying the eminent rate capability. When the current density returns back to 0.1 C, the cell can still retain a capacity of 289 mAh g−1. The cycle stability of the cell was also tested at 0.1 C, as depicted in Figure . The reversible capacity drops to 310 mAh g−1 after initial three cycles and a value of 290 mAh g−1 can be retained even after 500 cycles, corresponding to a capacity retention of 90.6% (compared with the third cycle) that is never been reported in organic-based ASSLBs before. The increase in capacity for the last 150 cycles may result from accumulative redox of electrolytes and their decomposition products during the one-year long test. Additionally, it can still achieve a reversible capacity of 178 mAh g−1 when test temperature decreased to 30 °C and regain the previous value after increasing the temperature back to 60 °C. The excellent cycle stability stems from the good (electro)chemical compatibility between PT and LPS described above. Besides, the favorable mechanical soft feature of them also redounds to the eminent capacity retention. SEM images were recorded on the cross section of pristine or cycled composite cathode in order to get an impression of the microstructure of the composite cathode (Figure , Supporting Information). Benefited from the softness of PT and LPS, the cycled cathode retained an intimate contact as pristine one even after 200 cycles, no matter at charged state or discharged state. The low Young's modulus not only makes for a conformal contact, but also helps to accommodate local stress during lithiation/delithiation. It is noted that some wrinkling behaviors can be seen in magnified image, which is consistent with previous report that flexible materials are prone to form the morphology of wrinkles instead of cracks during the stress-releasing process. On the contrary, active materials contact loss was observed in transitional metal oxide cathodes owing to their high elastic modulus and substantial volume change during charge/discharge, which hindered the Li-ion and electron migration and accounted for the fast increasing impedance and capacity fading. The self-discharge test was also conducted after the 500 cycles and the result is shown in Figure (Supporting Information).

Figure 5

Electrochemical performance of Li | LPS | PT-LPS-Super P all-solid-state cells and quantification for capacity contribution from LPS. a) Galvanostatic charge/discharge profiles of Li | LPS | PT-LPS-Super P cells at different current density in the voltage range of 1.5–3.5 V (vs Li+/Li). b) Rate capability of Li | LPS | PT-LPS-Super P cells. c) Galvanostatic charge/discharge profiles of Li | LPS | PT-LPS-Super P cells at 1st, 100th, 200th, 300th, 400th, and 500th cycle at 0.1 C. d) Cycling performance of Li | LPS | PT-LPS-Super P cells at 0.1 C during the 500 cycles. e) Galvanostatic charge/discharge profiles of Li | LPS | LPS-Super P cells at 1st, 10th, 30th cycle at 0.1 C. f) Cycling performance of Li | LPS | LPS-Super P cells at 0.1 C during the 30 cycles. g) FTIR spectra of pristine/discharged/charged composite cathode. Reversible evolution of carbonyl groups and enolate groups can be seen. All experiments were conducted at 60 °C besides 56 cycles of Li | LPS | PT-LPS-Super P cell operated at 30 °C marked with blue region in (d).

To further quantify the capacity contribution from electrolytes, cell with SE/Super P composite cathodes was fabricated, and the mass ratio of SE to Super P was controlled to be 9:1 to imitate the contact conditions in PT-based composite cathode. The specific capacity and cycle performance in the first 30 cycles are shown in Figure . The low reversible specific capacity of ≈8 mAh g−1 manifests that the SSEs in composite cathode with Super P went through only slight redox and made minor contributions to the overall capacity, in consistent with the results above. More discussions about redox of LPS is displayed in Figures and and Note (Supporting Information). FTIR spectra was also conducted to verify the redox behavior of PT (Figure ). After discharged, the stretching vibration of carbonyl groups centered at ≈1673 cm−1 almost vanishes, while an additional peak at ≈1373 cm−1 belonging to enolate groups emerges. After the following charge process, the carbonyl groups peak recovers and the enolate peak disappears. These results bear out the fact that PT underwent an almost entire redox in the discharge–charge process and contributed the major capacity.

### 2.5 Electrochemical Performance of Li | LPS | PT-LPS-Mo6S8All-Solid-State Cells

Recently, Mo6S8with fast Li-ion transport ability, high electronic conductivity and active capacity contribution was reported to unlock the gravimetric capacity and rate capability of Li-S batteries. In view of the similar insulating properties of PT and S8, Mo6S8can also compensate Li-ion/electron transport and contribute additional capacity of PT-based cathode.

Characterizations on Mo6S8are shown in Figures and and Table (Supporting Information). The low specific surface area of Mo6S8was speculated to reduce decomposition of LPS due to the lessened exposure of LPS to electronic conductor. Therefore, Mo6S8was employed to substitute all carbon additives and part SSEs in composite cathode to achieve better interfacial stability and faster interfacial charge transfer. The electrochemical performance of Li | LPS | PT-LPS-Mo6S8all-solid-state cells was evaluated as depicted in Figure . It exhibits a reversible capacity of ≈314, 307, 280, 272, 255, 210 mAh g−1 (based on the mass of PT) at 0.1, 0.2, 0.5, 0.7, 1, 2 C, respectively. A stable capacity of 333 mAh g−1 can be delivered after the current density decreases to 0.1 C. The prolonged cycle test at 1 C achieves an initial reversible capacity of 217 mAh g−1 and retains 179 mAh g−1 after 370 cycles. In addition, a new discharge plateau from Mo6S8to LiMo6S8at ≈2.4 V can be observed, from which the capacity contribution from Mo6S8can be estimated (Figure , Supporting Information). These results also corroborate the superior rate capability and outstanding cycle stability of PT-based cells which stem from the modified Mo6S8additives, improved interfacial compatibility, and the favorable conformal contact.

Figure 6

Electrochemical performance of Li | LPS | PT-LPS-Mo6S8all-solid-state cells at 60 °C. a) Galvanostatic charge/discharge profiles of cells at different current density in the voltage range of 1.5–3.5 V (vs Li+/Li). b) Rate capability of the cells. c) Galvanostatic charge/discharge profiles of cells at 1st, 50th, 100th, 200th, and 370th cycle at 1 C. d) Cycling performance of cells at 1 C during the 370 cycles.

3 Conclusion
------------

In summary, we have demonstrated the potential of applying organic quinone cathode to ASSLBs. Solid confinement prohibits the dissolution and shuttle effect so that enabling the employment of PT. Spectroscopic and electrochemical characterizations are utilized to deeply understand the (electro)chemical compatibility between PT and LPS. The modest redox potential of PT and appropriate specific surface area of carbon additives jointly lead to limited decomposition of LPS and reversible interlayer resistance. Mechanical and microscopic tests are also carried out to verify the softness feature of PT and LPS, which conduces the stress accommodation and conformal contact upon prolonged cycles. As a proof of concept, Li | LPS | PT-LPS-Super P all-solid-state cells are demonstrated to perform a high specific capacity and an excellent cycle stability. Mo6S8with low specific surface area is also exemplified to substitute all carbon additives and part SSEs to enable a carbon-free ASSLB with a better rate capability and a long life. This work indicates partnership of the organic quinone cathode and SSEs is promising for building sustainable and safe ASSLBs with outstanding electrochemical performance.

4 Experimental Section
----------------------

#### Preparation of Materials

Commercial 5,7,12,14-pentacenetetrone was obtained from TCI and used as received for active materials. The solid electrolytes Li7P3S11(LPS) glass ceramic used in this work was synthesized via a solid-state route as reported elsewhere. Typically, sulfide (Li2S, 99.9%, Alfa Aesar) and phosphorus pentasulfide (P2S5, 99%, Aladdin) with molar ratio of 70:30 were weighted and ground together. 2 g of powder was loaded into a ZrO2ball-mill jar with 40 g of 5 mm diameter ZrO2balls. The jars were placed in Planetary Micro Mill (Pulverisette 7, Fritsch) and milled for 30 h at 400 rpm (10 min of milling followed by 5 min breaks to dissipate heat). The resulting powder was subsequently annealed at 210 °C for 3 h and 250 °C for 1 h with a heating rate of 1 °C min−1 and cooled to room temperature naturally. All the above experiments were carried out under Ar atmosphere.

#### Materials Characterization

XRD patterns were obtained by a Bruker D8 advance diffractometer equipped with Cu Kα radiation (λ = 1.54178). For XRD measurement, LPS was sealed with Kapton film to avoid the moisture. The in situ XRD was tested using a imitate battery system with beryllium as a test window. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM, Hitachi S4800) was used to study the morphology and mapping of materials.  FTIR spectra measurement was performed on Thermo Fisher Nicolet 6700 FTIR spectrometer to study the structure of PT. Nanoindentation test was conducted by a Nano Indenter (Bruker Hysitron TI980) with a standard Berkovich tip to gain the Young's modulus of PT. XPS measurements were carried out by a Thermo Scientific K-Alpha+ with monochromatic Al Kα radiation (1486.6 eV). Solid-state 31P MAS NMR single pulse experiments were conducted on a 400 MHz Bruker Avance III spectrometer operating at 161.97 MHz. All samples were packed into 1.9 mm ZrO2rotors in a glove box with oxygen and H2O level below 1 ppm. The samples were spun at 30 kHz inside a 1.9 mm HXY triple resonance probe with temperature regulated at room temperature. The 31P NMR signal was collected using a π/2 pulse of 1.5 µs, a recycle delay of 7.5 s, and 256 transients. Chemical shift was externally referenced to the solid NH4H2PO4at 0.81 ppm. The cells prepared for all kinds of characterizations were operated at 0.1 C and 60 °C.

#### Electrochemical Measurements

The PT electrode used for preparing the Li-PT liquid cell was prepared by mixing the PT powders with conductive carbon (Ketjenblack) and binder (polytetrafluorethylene, PTFE) with a weight ratio of 6:3:1 in the isopropanol solvent. Then the slurry was rolled into a film and dried at 80 °C for 12 h. The PT electrode was obtained by compressing the above film onto the current collector (titanium mesh). The Li-PT coin cell (CR2016) was assembled in an argon-filled glove box with a PT electrode, a Celgard 2300 separator and a lithium metal anode. The used electrolyte was composed of 1M LiTFSI dissolved in a mixture of DOL and DME (1:1, volume ratio) with 1 wt% LiNO3additive. The Li-PT liquid cell with glass bottle employed the same cathode, anode and electrolyte as coin cell. The mass loading of both cells was 1 mg cm−2.

All solid-state cells were assembled as follows. First, 80 mg of the LPS powders were cold pressed in a polycarbonate cylinder with an inner-wall diameter of 10 mm under 360 MPa to fabricate the solid electrolyte pellet. The composite cathode was prepared by mixing PT, LPS, and different carbon additives with a mass ratio of 2:7:1 using a pestle and mortar for 15 min. For composite cathode without carbon additives, PT and LPS with a mass ratio of 2:8 were mixed by the same way. When Mo6S8was used, the composite cathode was composed of PT, LPS, and Mo6S8with a mass ratio of 1:3:1. Next, ≈4.2 mg of composite cathode was distributed on one side of LPS pellet (corresponding to a loading of 1.07 mg cm−2), followed by cold pressing under 360 MPa for 1 min. A thin lithium foil was pressed onto the other side of the as-obtained LPS pellet to finish the cell fabrication. A moderate axial pressure of ≈15 MPa was applied through the test. Galvanostatic charge/discharge tests at different current density were conducted between 1.5–3.5 V versus Li+/Li using a Land battery test system (Wuhan, China) at 60 °C. In situ EIS was carried out after 1 h charge/discharge and 0.5 h rest to achieve equilibrium. An amplitude of 10 mV was chosen for measurements in the frequency range of 1 MHz−100 mHz with 10 points per decade.

Conflict of Interest
--------------------

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

