

1 Introduction
--------------

Currently, with the popularity of electric cars and portable electronic devices, lithium-ion batteries (LIBs) have been generally utilized in daily life. However, the use of combustible organic electrolytes in LIBs has raised significant concerns about the safety. In addition, the limited energy density further hinders the extensive application of LIBs. All-solid-state Li metal batteries (ASSLMBs) have been considered as one of the most significant energy storage methods, resulting from high energy density, the excellent safety, and ultrastable cycling performance. Since the solid electrolyte is the vital component in ASSLMBs, it has captured plentiful attentions.

Sulfide solid electrolytes (SSEs), possessing high ionic conductivity, appropriate mechanical strength, and high-temperature stability, have been regarded as one of the most promising alternatives. In 2005, a superionic conductor Li7P3S11was synthesized successfully with an ionic conductivity (3.2 mS cm–1). Additionally, the 70Li2S-30P2S5electrolyte possesses high ionic conductivity (17 mS cm–1) via removing the voids and grain impedances. Furthermore, the Li9.54Si1.74P1.44S11.7Cl0.3electrolyte presents incredible ionic conductivity of 25 mS cm–1, which can be even better than the liquid organic electrolyte. Despite making remarkable progresses, there are still some drawbacks that limit the application of SSEs. At first, the traditional preparation method, involving in mechanical milling plus annealing, is outdated on account of cost-intensive and time-consuming processes. Moreover, it is still challenging to match SSEs with Li metal directly due to the strong reducibility of lithium. Ultimately, on account of the high oxygen affinity of hard acid (P5+), the SSEs containing PS43− units tend to react with H2O to release poisonous H2S gas. Hence, it is urgent to develop a versatile SSEs with a simple method.

For realizing the application of SSEs, several practical approaches have been propounded to deal with these issues in ASSLMBs. One is to utilize the mechanochemically synthesized method to prepare SSEs, which is an innovative method that contains pulverizing, glassification, and crystallization in one-pot process. Furthermore, for enhancing the poor interfacial stability of SSEs against Li metal, the F-rich or I-containing functional interfaces have been proposed to solve the issue. In particular, the F- or I-based SSEs can directly react with Li metal to configure a robust solid electrolyte interphase (SEI), which can alleviate side reactions and the formation of Li dendrites in ASSLMBs. Nevertheless, it is still difficult to obtain a superionic conductor (>10–3 S cm–1) with good air stability. Fortunately, replacing hard acid (P5+) with soft acid is a feasible method to enhance the air stability of SSEs from the hard-soft-acid-base theory. For instance, the Li6PS5I electrolyte has been demonstrated to obtain improved air stability with soft Sn substitution. Moreover, since soft acid Sb tends to bond with soft base S rather than hard base O, the air stability of Li10GeP2S12is enhanced with Sb-doping. What is more, the incorporation of elements with larger atomic radius will broaden the Li+ migration channel, which can simultaneously improve the ionic conductivity.

The classic argyrodite-type Li6PS5X (X = Cl, Br and I) have captured great attentions on account of the low cost of raw materials. Rich I concentration in the sulfide electrolytes can in situ construct a stable SEI to prevent Li dendrites. The Li6PS5I electrolyte will be promising electrolyte if proper ionic conductivity (> 10–3 S cm–1) is acquired. Recent study has indicated that the ionic conductivity of Li6PS5I electrolyte is enhanced after soft mechanical treatment. In addition, the incorporation of soft acid (Sn, As and Sb) can not only raise ionic conductivity, but also enhance air stability. In this present work, the argyrodite-type electrolytes are prepared rapidly via the UEMA approach in one-pot process. The In-doped Li6PS5I electrolyte obtains higher ionic conductivity and better air stability compared to pristine Li6PS5I at the same alloying time, and still possesses excellent cycling stability on account of forming a LiI-rich layer at the interface of Li metal. Moreover, the constructed all-solid-state Li-S batteries with Li6.5In0.25P0.75S5I electrolyte as an interlayer exhibit ultrastable cycling performance.

2 Results and Discussion
------------------------

Figure descripts the preparation process of the Li6PS5I electrolyte employing the UEMA method. To know the detailed features of the process, the relationship between the ionic conductivity (σ) of Li6PS5I and the mechanical alloying time is examined (Figure ). It takes only 10 min to synthesize the Li6PS5I electrolyte with a high ionic conductivity (1.82 mS cm–1). This is the valuable report that SSEs can be prepared with such a short period of time. However, as the mechanical alloying time further increases, the ionic conductivity of the electrolyte will decrease continuously. When the mechanical alloying time exceeds 60 min, the ionic conductivity decreases to the plateau value (0.79 mS cm–1). As a comparison, the ionic conductivity of Li6PS5I electrolyte via the traditional method presents a low value of 7.25 × 10–3 mS cm–1 in Figure (Supporting Information). Moreover, the detailed Nyquist plots of Li6PS5I synthesized by UEMA for different alloying time are displayed in Figure .

Figure 1

a) Schematic diagram of the preparation of Li6PS5I electrolyte using UEMA method. b) Ionic conductivity (σ) of Li6PS5I versus the mechanical alloying time. c) Nyquist plots of Li6PS5I electrolytes synthesized by UEMA for different alloying time at 298 K, d) the Nyquist plot of precursor (mechanical alloying timet= 0 min).

To elucidate the structural variation of the synthesized electrolytes affected by mechanical alloying time, the materials were investigated by means of X-ray diffraction (XRD), Raman and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR). Figure displays the XRD patterns of Li6PS5I electrolytes obtained by conventional and UEMA methods. The Li6PS5I electrolyte prepared by the traditional mechanical alloying method shows a high Li-argyrodite crystallinity, which agrees with the previous report. The Li-argyrodite phase also appears in the samples prepared by UEMA, which illustrates that the method can successfully synthesize Li6PS5I electrolyte in one-pot process. The XRD peak of Li6PS5I prepared by UEMA is wider than that of the traditional method, indicating that the grain sizes of the electrolyte prepared by UEMA are smaller. The grain size of the samples prepared by UEMA varies with the alloying time. As calculated from the Scherrer equation, the average crystallite size of conventional Li6PS5I is 70 nm, and that of crystalline Li6PS5I prepared by UEMA is 11–16 nm (Tables , Supporting Information). Based on previous reports, S2−/I− anion site disorder is necessary for the intercage diffusion step to facilitate long-range Li+ ion transport. However, I ions only occupy the 4a position and there is no the S2−/I− anion site disorder in the conventional Li6PS5I electrolyte, which hinders intercage diffusion of Li ions. Larger grain size implies longer range ordered crystal structure, which is not conducive to the Li+ migration in the Li6PS5I electrolyte. In particular, low-speed-scan XRD patterns and Rietveld refinements of crystalline Li6PS5I electrolytes by conventional and UEMA methods are tested to investigate the evolution of the S2−/I− anion site order (Figures and , Supporting Information). Compared with the conventional Li6PS5I, the electrolyte prepared by UEMA method shows the higher S2−/I− anion site disorder (Table , Supporting Information), which is beneficial to Li+ migration. Therefore, the enhanced ionic conductivity of Li6PS5I electrolytes prepared by UEMA is attributed to the small grain size and high S2−/I− anion site disorder. When the mechanical alloying time is 10 min, the XRD pattern of the sample represents Halo peak and residual Li2S, indicating that the Li6PS5I electrolyte mainly exists in the amorphous state. With the increase of mechanical alloying time, the intensity of Li2S impurity decreases, while the Li-argyrodite phase appears and increases continuously. This means that the structural disorder or distortion is reduced, which will lead to the reduction of ionic conductivity in the Li6PS5I electrolytes. Furthermore, the grain size reaches the peak value after the mechanical alloying time exceeds 60 min, indicating that the glassification rate is equal to crystallization of the electrolytes obtained by the UEMA method. For ensuring the adequate reaction of the raw material, the mechanical alloying time in the subsequent work was set to 60 min. The Raman spectra of the Li6PS5I electrolytes are represented in Figure . The major peaks at 406 cm–1 and 421 cm–1 can match with LiI and PS43– units, respectively. Since the UEMA method can provide ultrahigh energy, there are a lot of defects and distortions in the Li6PS5I electrolytes. The Raman spectra of the electrolytes prepared by UEMA have slight offset compared with the pristine Li6PS5I. With the increase of mechanical alloying time, the offset of the peak position decreases, indicating the reduction of defects and distortions in the electrolytes.

Figure 2

a) XRD patterns and b) Raman spectra of Li6PS5I electrolytes by conventional and UEMA methods. c) 7Li MAS NMR and d) 31P MAS NMR spectra of Li6PS5I electrolytes prepared by conventional and UEMA methods.

For further distinguishing the difference of Li6PS5I electrolytes prepared by conventional and UEMA methods, the high resolution 7Li MAS and 31P MAS NMR spectroscopes are performed. As exhibited Figure , the two electrolytes (microcrystalline and nanocrystalline) have similar 7Li NMR signals. The Gaussian character of the lineshape should be symmetric. However, the nanocrystalline Li6PS5I has a more obvious chemical shift asymmetry, which is on account of greater halogen disorder. Notably, the 7Li NMR signal of nanocrystalline Li6PS5I is narrower than that of the microcrystalline, which illustrates that a larger proportion of mobile Li ions exists in the nanocrystalline Li6PS5I electrolyte. Furthermore, the lineshape of 31P NMR presents a distinct contrast (Figure ). The 31P NMR spectrum of the microcrystalline Li6PS5I consists of a single resonance peak (95.85 ppm), which is consistent with the previous reports. The signal reflects that the arrangement of all PS43– tetrahedra is ordered and regular. In addition to the main peak (95.65 ppm), an extra peak (85.09 ppm) in the nanocrystalline Li6PS5I can be observed (Figure ). The similar resonance peak at 95.65 ppm illustrates that the UEMA method can directly synthesize the electrolyte containing Li-argyrodite crystallinity. Particularly, the broad Gaussian resonance peak represents the different 31P environments. The serious polyhedral distortions and local defects are to blame for the dramatic change.

The microstructures of electrolytes were also investigated by bright-filed TEM and the selected-area electron diffraction (SAED) measurements. Figure (Supporting Information) reveals the grain shapes and crystalline structures of Li6PS5I electrolytes prepared by conventional and UEMA methods. The presence of ring and blurred spherical pattern for Li6PS5I electrolyte prepared by UEMA method indicates the amorphous and polycrystalline Li-argyrodite features. However, the conventional Li6PS5I electrolyte displays a distinct face-centered cubic diffraction spots that can match with the (222) and (311) atomic planes of the Li-argyrodite phase, suggesting that the sample becomes more crystalline. The large well-oriented crystal grains mean long range ordered crystal structure, which is not conducive to the Li+ migration in the Li6PS5I electrolyte.

For demonstrating that UEMA is a general method to synthesize the argyrodite-type electrolytes, Li6PS5Br and Li6PS5Cl are also attempted. The XRD and Raman measurements of the Li6PS5Br and Li6PS5Cl electrolytes prepared by UEMA also present Li-argyrodite crystallinity (Figures and , Supporting Information). The ionic conductivity and calculated activation energy are shown in Figures and (Supporting Information). The Li6PS5Br and Li6PS5Br electrolytes represent a superior ionic conductivity of 1.12 and 1.33 mS cm–1, respectively.

Replacing hard acid (P5+) with soft acid, such as In3+, can improve the air stability of SSEs from the hard-soft-acid-base theory. Meanwhile, the Li+ carriers concentration can be improved in the unit cells on account of the replacement of P5+ by In3+ with the lower valence, which contributes to enhance the ionic conductivity. For knowing whether indium can be successfully doped into the Li6PS5I electrolyte, the decomposition energy ΔEfor the following hypothetical reaction (1) is figured based on DFT calculation

(1)

The decomposition energy ΔEof Li6PS5X (X = Cl, Br and I) is also calculated in the same method and listed in Table (Supporting Information). The negative value of ΔEdecompositionmeans Li6PS5X (X = Cl, Br and I) electrolytes are thermodynamically unstable. However, many previous reports have demonstrated the existence of Li6PS5X (X = Cl, Br and I) electrolytes at room temperature. This indicates that the decomposition energy is relatively small and can be stabilized by the kinetic barrier at room temperature, thus forming metastable Li6PS5X (X = Cl, Br and I) electrolytes. Furthermore, according to the DFT calculations, the incorporation of indium does not lead to a significant increase in the decomposition energy of Li6PS5I, illustrating that the In-doped Li6PS5I electrolyte can be prepared potentially. As represented in Figure , the substituted indium atom is shared with P in the 4b site.

Figure 3

The structure diagram of In-doped Li6PS5I electrolyte from DFT calculation.

For demonstrating that the In-doped Li6PS5I electrolyte can be synthesized by UEMA successfully, the XRD and Raman measurements are performed to the samples. To ensure adequate reaction of the raw materials and the formation of Li-argyrodite phase, the mechanical alloying time is determined to be 60 min. As depicted in Figure , the XRD pattern of the In-doped Li6PS5I electrolyte matches with Li-argyrodite crystalline peaks and residual Li2S peaks. Compared with Li6PS5I, the (2 2 0) peak of Li6.5In0.25P0.75S5I has a left offset and no corresponding peaks of In2S3appear in the magnifying XRD patterns (Figure , Supporting Information), exemplifying that the indium elements are successfully doped into the crystal structure and then result in expanded lattice. Additionally, there is an apparent offset in the Raman spectrum after the incorporation of indium element in Li6PS5I (Figure ). Moreover, the morphology and size of the samples are not significantly changed by In-doping (Figure , Supporting Information). The EDS mapping illustrates that the distribution of indium is homogeneous in the electrolyte.

Figure 4

a) XRD patterns and b) Raman spectra of Li6PS5I and Li6.5In0.25P0.75S5I electrolytes at the mechanical alloying time of 60 min. Low-speed-scan XRD patterns and Rietveld refinements of c) Li6.5In0.25P0.75S5I and d) Li6PS5I electrolytes. e) Nyquist plot at 298 K and f) Arrhenius profile of Li6.5In0.25P0.75S5I electrolyte tested from 268 to 393 K.

To reveal in detail the variation of crystalline phases caused by In-doping, Low-speed-scan XRD patterns and Rietveld refinements of Li6PS5I and Li6.5In0.25P0.75S5I electrolytes are tested (Figure ). As described in Tables and (Supporting Information), the unit cell parameters of Li6.5In0.25P0.75S5I (a=b=c= 10.15242 Å) are larger than those of Li6PS5I (a=b=c= 10.13466 Å). The result quantifies the impact of indium incorporation on the unit cell parameters. The doped indium atom in the 4b site is shared with P. Moreover, the incorporation of indium increases the Li+ carrier concentration and induces the S2−/I− anion site disorder (Table , Supporting Information), which are expected to promote the Li+ migration and enhance the ionic conductivity.

The alternating current impedance was performed to test the ionic conductivity of the In-doped electrolyte. The Nyquist plot of the Li6.5In0.25P0.75S5I electrolyte is shown in Figure . It has an enhanced ionic conductivity (1.06 mS cm–1) compared with Li6PS5I (0.79 mS cm–1) at the same alloying time of 60 min. In comparison with the activation energy (0.324 eV) of Li6PS5I, a smaller activation energy (0.276 eV) of Li6.5In0.25P0.75S5I is found in Figure . The expanding Li+ transport channel and the increased Li+ carrier concentration effectively weaken the transport obstacles and promote the Li+ migration. Besides, the electronic conductivity of the Li6.5In0.25P0.75S5I electrolyte shown in Figure (Supporting Information) exhibits the reduced electronic conductivity (8.32 × 10–9 S cm–1), which plays a vital part in Li dendrite suppression.

The poor air stability of SSEs will generate toxic H2S gas and increase the fabrication cost of batteries. Without the incorporation of indium element, the pristine Li6PS5I electrolyte generates a large amount of H2S after being exposed to 10% humidity air as depicted in Figure . While the generation of H2S in Li6.5In0.25P0.75S5I reduces drastically, thus implying that In-doping can enhance the air stability of Li6PS5I-based electrolyte. The XRD and Raman measurements were performed to characterize the structure changes after exposure in moist air. As described in Figure , the unknown peaks show in the XRD pattern of pristine Li6PS5I. On the contrary, the XRD pattern of Li6.5In0.25P0.75S5I remains unchanged as expected. In addition, two new peaks at 348 cm–1 and 388 cm–1 can be observed in the corresponding enlarged Raman spectra of Li6PS5I (Figure , Supporting Information), which result from the destroy of PS bond after air exposure. However, the Li6.5In0.25P0.75S5I electrolyte can maintain its structure. Therefore, replacing P5+ with In3+ is an easy and useful method to strengthen the air stability of Li6PS5I-based electrolyte.

Figure 5

a) The quantity of H2S gas produced from both Li6.5In0.25P0.75S5I and Li6PS5I electrolytes when exposed in moisture air. b) XRD patterns and c) Raman spectra of Li6.5In0.25P0.75S5I and Li6PS5I electrolytes before and after exposing in moisture air. d) Illustration of the difficult degree of PS4and InS4tetrahedrons reacting with H2O on the basis of the DFT calculation.

The hydrolysis reaction energy ΔEis applied to evaluate the air stability of SSEs. As a result, the hydrolysis energy on the basis of DFT calculation is determined to disclose the enhanced air stability of In-doped Li6PS5I electrolyte. In general, the deterioration of the sulfide involves the attack of H2O to PS4tetrahedron, which refers to the substitution of S with O atom. The hydrolysis energy of PS4and InS4units is calculated for the following reactions

(2)

(3)

The ΔEof PS4and InS4units are –1.00 and 0.81 eV, respectively. The negative value of ΔEmeans PS4tetrahedron is easy to react with H2O (Figure ). However, the ΔEof InS4units is a positive value, which illustrates that the hydrolysis reaction of InS4units is thermodynamically unfavorable. In other words, indium gives priority to bond sulfur rather than oxygen. Therefore, the air stability of the Li6.5In0.25P0.75S5I electrolyte can be enhanced sharply, which agree well with our experimental data.

The interfacial stability between the Li6.5In0.25P0.75S5I electrolyte and Li metal was evaluated by the galvanostatic charge/discharge test of Li symmetric cells. As depicted in Figure , a sudden voltage drop appears in the Li/Li3PS4/Li symmetric cell after 58 h, illustrating that a soft short circuit occurs in the cell. However, the Li/Li6PS5I/Li symmetric cell can deliver a stable cycle for 600 h (Figure ), which is consistent with previous reports. I-doped sulfide solid electrolytes can alleviate the interfacial side reactions and the formation of Li dendrite. Moreover, the Li/Li6.5In0.25P0.75S5I/Li symmetric cell also shows a low initial overpotential of 15 mV and can remain a stable cycle for 1000 h at a current density of 0.1 mA cm–2. Notably, the overpotential only increases to 22 mV after 1000 h (Figure ). Additionally, the Li/Li6.5In0.25P0.75S5I/Li symmetric cell can cycle steadily at a current density of 0.2 mA cm–2 (Figure , Supporting Information). Besides, the time-dependent impedance spectra are also employed to evaluate the interfacial stability of Li6.5In0.25P0.75S5I electrolyte. There is negligible impedance change in the Li/Li6.5In0.25P0.75S5I/Li symmetric cell after storage for 64 h, which confirms that the electrolyte possesses good interfacial stability (Figure , Supporting Information). The cycling stability of Li6.5In0.25P0.75S5I electrolyte is equal with the best performances of SSEs in previous reports (Table , Supporting Information). Furthermore, the morphology variations of Li surface after cycling are observed by SEM as displayed in Figures and (Supporting Information). There are obvious dendrites and cracks in the Li/Li3PS4/Li symmetric cell. By contrast, the interface after cycling is flat and dense in the Li/Li6PS5I/Li and Li/Li6.5In0.25P0.75S5I/Li symmetric cell. The EDS mapping manifests that the interphase is I-rich. Figure (Supporting Information) exhibits the XPS spectra of I 3d at the Li metal surface. The formation of the I-rich, namely LiI-rich SEI, is the essence to realize the remarkable cycling stability. Besides, the basic properties of Li6.5In0.25P0.75S5I electrolyte is summarized compared with other representative SSEs (Table , Supporting Information), which reveals that Li6.5In0.25P0.75S5I is a promising electrolyte.

Figure 6

Electrochemical performance of Li plating/stripping on the a) Li/Li3PS4/Li, b) Li/Li6PS5I/Li, and c) Li/Li6.5In0.25P0.75S5I/Li symmetric cells at a current density of 0.1 mA cm–1.

For manifesting the applicability of Li6.5In0.25P0.75S5I in ASSLMBs, the electrolyte emerged as an interlayer to stabilize the interface between the Li10SnP2S12electrolyte and Li metal. Figure describes the schematic diagram of the assembled ASSLMBs with S cathode. Cyclic voltammetry measurement was applied to evaluate the electrochemical redox reaction of ASSLMBs with or without Li6.5In0.25P0.75S5I interlayer (Figure , Supporting Information). The oxidation-reduction pair peaks at around 1.6 and 2.5 V prove the solid phase transfer mechanism between S and Li2S, respectively. With the Li6.5In0.25P0.75S5I interlayer, the peak currents and the enclosed region are almost identical to each other, indicating the good electrochemical reversibility. However, the enclosed areas of ASSLMBs without the interlayer deliver a decreased value, implying that an irreversible side reaction has occurred. The charge/discharge curves of the ASSLMBs with the Li6.5In0.25P0.75S5I interlayer at 0.05 C are represented in Figure . The Li/ Li6.5In0.25P0.75S5I-Li10SnP2S12/S battery represents an initial discharge capacity of 954 mAh g–1. In addition, with Li6.5In0.25P0.75S5I as an interlayer, the assembled ASSLMBs exhibit excellent cycling stability. Remarkably, the capacity retention of 96% can be accomplished after 200 cycles at 0.1C (Figure ). Moreover, a capacity retention of 75% with a reversible capacity of 390 mAh g−1 after 200 cycles at 0.5 C are demonstrated (Figure , Supporting Information). By contrast, the Li/Li10SnP2S12/S battery exhibits large voltage polarization and low discharge capacity of 823 mAh g–1 (Figure , Supporting Information). Furthermore, as depicted in Figure (Supporting Information), the battery presents a rapid capacity decay and its capacity decreases to 78 mAh g−1 after 60 cycles at 0.1C on account of continuous interfacial reaction between the Li10SnP2S12electrolyte and Li metal. To further assess the impact of the interfacial reaction, the rate capability of ASSLMBs was tested (Figure , Supporting Information). The discharge capacities of Li/Li6.5In0.25P0.75S5I- Li10SnP2S12/S battery are 950, 902, 787, 557, and 323 mAh g−1 at 0.05, 0.1, 0.2, 0.5, and 1 C, respectively. On the contrary, the ASSLMBs without interlayer only show a discharge capacity of 826, 576, 233, 18, and 0 mAh g−1 at the corresponding rates, respectively. The enhanced rate capacity is attributed to the suppression of interfacial side reactions by the Li6.5In0.25P0.75S5I layer. Additionally, the alternating current impedances of ASSLMBs before and after cycling were also characterized to evaluate the applicability of the Li6.5In0.25P0.75S5I electrolyte. The impedance of Li/Li6.5In0.25P0.75S5I-Li10SnP2S12/S battery raises from 120 to 165 Ω after 200 cycles (Figure , Figure , Supporting Information). As a comparison, the impedance of battery without the interlayer elevates significantly from 170 to 8000 Ω (Figure , Supporting Information), testifying that the Li6.5In0.25P0.75S5I interlayer possesses a remarkable applicability to restrain the interfacial reaction.

Figure 7

a) Schematic diagram of the Li/Li6.5In0.25P0.75S5I-Li10SnP2S12/S battery. b) Galvanostatic charge/discharge curves at 0.05 C. c) Cycling stability. d) The impedance spectra from 1 MHz–0.01 Hz before cycling.

3 Conclusion
------------

In summary, the novel ultimate-energy mechanical alloying approach is introduced to produce rapidly the argyrodite-type electrolytes in one-pot process. On the basis of the DFT calculation, In-doped Li6PS5I electrolyte can exist steadily. Replacing P5+ with In3+ improves the air stability of the Li6PS5I electrolyte. The Li6.5In0.25P0.75S5I electrolyte prepared exhibits enhanced ionic conductivity (1.06 mS cm–1), and possesses excellent interfacial stability against Li metal on account of the formation of the LiI-rich layer. With the Li6.5In0.25P0.75S5I electrolyte as an interlayer, the assembled Li-S batteries present high discharge capacity (954 mAh g–1) and remarkable cycling stability. The ultimate-energy mechanical alloying method is a simple and practical approach to produce the argyrodite-type electrolyte. And In-doped Li6PS5I electrolyte has remarkable potential for ASSLMBs application.

4 Experimental Section
----------------------

#### Synthesis of materials

Li6PS5I glass-ceramic was synthesized via UEMA method. The starting materials were Li2S (99.9%, Alfa Aesar), P2S5(99.9%, Alfa Aesar), and LiI (99.99%, Aladdin). 2 g overall mass of Li2S, P2S5,and LiI with molar ratio of 5: 1: 2 were weighed and put into a zirconia jar (125mL) with 25 zirconia balls (10 mm in diameter, overall mass = 75 g). The mechanosynthesized process was carried out on the mechanical alloying apparatus (Retsch, Emax) with 1200 rpm for different alloying time. In order to avoid high-temperature decomposition of samples due to high-speed grinding, the milling apparatus was equipped with a cooling machine to maintain the temperature of the zirconia jar at 298–308 K. In particular, when the mechanical alloying timet= 0 min, the raw materials were mixed uniformly in a mortar for 20 min. The traditional Li6PS5I crystal was synthesized via milling at 600 rpm for 13 h. The obtained precursors were pressed into pellets, and then sealed in a quartz ampule and annealed at 873 K for 2 h. For ensuring the adequate reaction of the raw materials, the Li6PS5Br, Li6PS5Cl, and Li6.5In0.25P0.75S5I electrolytes were prepared via mechanical alloying at 1200 rpm for 60 min. The cathode in solid-state batteries consisted of sublimed sulfur, vapor grown carbon fiber (VGCF), and SSE. The S, VGCF, and SSE were mixed at the mass ratio of 7: 1: 2 by grinding at 300 rpm for 1 h. All of the preparation processes were operated in an argon-filled glove box (H2O < 0.1 ppm, O2< 0.1 ppm).

#### Air Stability Measurements

For the H2S generation tests, the sulfide samples (150 mg) were pressed into the pellet. Then the pellet and a H2S gas sensor were put into a sealed container (10 L) filled with humid air (humidity around 10%). The measurement process was in the drying room, which could control the humidity. In addition, after exposure of 10% humidity, XRD and Raman measurements were conducted for the electrolyte samples.

Conflict of Interest
--------------------

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

