

1 Introduction
--------------

Lithium-ion batteries (LIBs) have been widely used in consumer electronics, electric vehicles (EVs), and grid energy storage systems since commercialized by Sony in 1991. Despite great progress in lithium-ion battery research over the past decades, thermal runaway risks under abusive conditions due to flammable organic electrolytes remain challenging. Furthermore, to further push the energy density of LIBs to the limit, lithium metal is urged as a “holy grail” anode material owing to its high theoretical specific capacity (3860 mAh g−1) and the lowest redox potential (-3.040 V vs standard hydrogen electrode (SHE)). However, the application of lithium metal anodes in traditional LIBs will inevitably lead to lithium dendrite issues, posing serious safety risks. ASSBs offer intrinsic safety advantages by replacing liquid electrolytes with nonflammable, high mechanical moduli solid-state electrolytes (SSEs).  In addition, bipolar stacking can be achieved in ASSBs, thus minimizing inactive components in the battery module pack and achieving higher energy density. Among various SSE candidates (such as oxides, sulfides, polymers, etc.), the sulfide solid-state electrolyte, with its high room temperature ionic conductivity (10−3–10−2 S cm−1) and good formability, offers the potential for practical applications of all-solid batteries. 

Despite their promise, electrochemomechanical problems in sulfide-based ASSBs remain poorly understood. These electrochemomechanical effects (mainly resulting from volume changes of active materials during cycling) in LIBs with liquid electrolytes have already been studied.  However, they will become more complex and severe when it comes to solid-state batteries. Unlike the liquid battery, the internal (mechanical) stress generated in the particles or electrodes in ASSBs cannot be transferred quickly and uniformly with rigid SSEs, thus resulting in the concentrated accumulation and release of the internal stress of the battery. Therefore, the internal stress generated in an all-solid-state battery will lead to severe electrochemomechanical issues such as physical contact losses between active materials and solid electrolytes, breakdown of the active materials, short circuits of Li metal anode, etc. These electrochemo-mechanical problems will block ion/electron transport and increase battery impedance, drastically deteriorating the electrochemical performance and hindering the application of ASSBs.

Measuring the corresponding stress evolution precisely during battery cycling is crucial for understanding the electrochemo-mechanical problems. To the best of our knowledge, the earliest internal stress measurement work of sulfide-based ASSBs was in a Li–S battery system, reported by Janek's group in 2016. In their work, an external pressure sensor was used to monitor stress changes during cycling. Subsequently, internal stress measurements with external pressure sensors have been reported in various battery materials and systems, including NCM materials, alloy anode materials, and solid-state electrolyte materials.  Recently, the fiber Bragg grating (FBG) sensors, which are widely used in liquid LIBs,  have been implemented into the solid-state battery system.  These in situ or operando measurements provide a powerful tool for examining the link between electromechanical effects and battery electrochemical performance. Recently, Song et al. performed a comprehensive overview of stress sources and the resulting electrochemomechanical effects on composite electrodes and cell stacks in ASSBs.  However, few review articles are available in the literature to provide a comprehensive summary of the working principles and experimental devices for stress measurement (such as external pressure sensors and FBG sensors) and the application of these stress-measuring techniques.

This review examines the recent research progress on internal stress measurement in sulfide-based ASSBs. First, volume changes of active materials and solid-state electrolytes during battery cycling and corresponding stress changes in electrode level are categorized. Then the basic principles and measurement devices (including external pressure sensors and built-in FBG sensors) for internal stress measurement in sulfide-based ASSBs are introduced. We also summarize and discuss the relationship between stress changes and electrochemical reaction processes in ASSBs. Finally, we present our views on the future development of internal stress measurement in sulfide-based ASSBs. The overall content of the review is summarized in a comprehensive schematic diagram in Figure .

Figure 1

Comprehensive schematic diagram of electrochemo-mechanical stress origins, stress measuring devices, and applications in sulfide-based ASSBs.

2 The Origin of Internal Stress
-------------------------------

The electrochemo-mechanical problems caused by internal stress are frequently ignored in the research of sulfide-based ASSBs. The internal stress is mainly induced by the coupling of the volume changes of the active materials during the electrochemical process. The volume changes of SSEs caused by Li+ migration are negligible due to their intrinsic ceramic nature. Therefore, the variation of the active materials will be constrained by rigid SSEs, leading to internal stress development. When active materials with huge volume changes are applied and the battery capacity is high, the internal stress can even reach the MPa level.

The volume change of active materials can be described by the partial molar volume of lithium  in the corresponding compound. The partial molar volume is defined as the differential of the considered homogeneous volume caused by the addition of lithium (maintaining all other state variables constant, i.e., pressurep, temperatureT, and amount of phase in the systemni).

(1)

The absolute volume change ΔVof the active materials during lithium insertion/extraction can be obtained by integrating.

(2)

The volume changes derived from crystallographic data for each active material during electrochemical cycling are summarized in Table .

Table 1.
 Volume changes of typical electrode materials during battery cycling

| Electrode materials | Reactions | Volume change (%) |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Cathode side | LiCoO2= 0.5Li + Li0.5CoO2 | 1.9 |
|  | LiNiO2=xLi + Li1-xNiO2 | 9 |
|  | LiO2=xLi + Li1-xO2 | −3.4 |
|  | LiO2=xLi + Li1-xO2 | −5.2 |
|  | LiO2=xLi + Li1-xO2 | −7.8 |
|  | LiO2=xLi + Li1-xO2 | −5.9 |
|  | LiFePO4= Li + FePO4 | −6.5 |
|  | LiMn2O4= Li + 2MnO2 | −7.3 |
|  | S+2Li = Li2S | 79 |
|  | Se+2Li = Li2Se | 98 |
|  | Te+2Li = Li2Te | 104.7 |
|  | CuS+2Li = Cu+Li2S | 75 |
| Anode side | C6+ Li = LiC6 | 13.1 |
|  | Li4Ti5O12+ Li = Li7Ti5O12 | ≈0.2 |
|  | Si + 4.4Li = Li4.4Si | 310 |
|  | In + Li = InLi | 105.6 |
|  | Sn +4.4Li = Li4.4Sn | 260 |
|  | Al + Li = LiAl | 100 |
|  | Li foil +xLi = Li1+x | 4.85 × 10−4 cm3 mAh-1 |

* a) 

 The theoretical volume change of Li foil is calculated as follows.

(3)whereQis the lithium deposition capacity (mAh),MLiis the molar mass of lithium (6.94 g mol−1),Fis the Faraday's constant, and ρLiis the density of lithium (0.534 g cm−3). Therefore, the thickness change of Li foil will reach 48.5 µm at an areal capacity of 10 mAh cm−2.

### 2.1 Cathode Materials

#### 2.1.1 Layered Oxide Materials

LiMO2(M for transition metals) layered oxides possess a hexagonal α-NaFeO2layered structure with theR-3mspace group. It corresponds to the cubic close-packed (CCP) oxygen arrays with metal ions occupying octahedral sites, forming consecutive LiO2and MO2layers. These layered oxides mainly include LiCoO2(LCO), LiNiO2(LNO), LiNixMnyCozO2(x+y+z= 1) (NMC), and LiNixCoyAlzO2(x+y+z= 1) (NCA), etc. The structural changes and the corresponding volume changes of these materials during cycling are discussed in the following section.

LiCoO2(LCO) is widely used in consumer electronics, and its theoretical specific capacity is 270 mAh g−1. LCO undergoes complex structural changes during the electrochemical process. During the Li1-xCoO2delithiation process, two hexagonal phases (H1 and H2) and one monoclinic phase (M1) can be observed. H1 appears in the initial charging stage (x< 0.04) and is partially converted to H2 whenxreaches 0.04, and H2 coexists with H1 untilxincreases to 0.25. Whenxexceeds 0.25, H1 is completely converted to H2, and whenx> 0.47, Li+ is further removed from Li1-xCoO2, which makes H2 convert to M1. Whenxexceeds 0.56, M1 transforms into H2 again. When Li-ions are completely extracted from Li1-xCoO2, CoO2with a hexagonal monolayer structure is formed. Among them, the hexagonal ↔ hexagonal transition or the hexagonal ↔ monoclinic transition causes severe volume change. Considering the structural irreversibility (hexagonal to monoclinic) at the amount of lithium changes > 0.5 mol, its practical capacity is limited to about 145 mAh g−1. When charged to Li0.5CoO2, the volume of the LiCoO2cell increases by +2%.

LiNiO2(LNO), an oxide material isomorphic to layered LCO, is considered a promising cathode material for power LIBs with high energy density due to its large theoretical specific capacity (275 mAh g−1) and lower cost (avoiding Co). During delithiation/lithiation, LNO undergoes complex structural changes (hexagonal H1-monoclinic M-hexagonal H2-hexagonal H3 phases) and corresponding huge volume changes (maximum volume change ≈9%). Specifically, during the delithiation process, three two-phase regions: H1-M, M-H2, and H2-H3, are located at 0.80 ≥x(Li) ≥ 0.75, 0.40 ≥x(Li) ≥ 0.36 and 0.26 ≥x(Li) ≥ 0.16, respectively. Interestingly, the LNO unit cell exhibits a nonlinear volume change. Taking the charging process as an example, the H1-M-H2 phase transition contributes only ≈3% of the total ≈9% volume change. Most of the volume change (≈6%) occurs whenx≤ 0.26, where the H2–H3 phase transition results in a ≈3.8% drop in unit cell volume.

By introducing both dopants, Co (to enhance the layered ordering) and Mn (to stabilize the local structure), into LNO, the developed ternary NMC material has become one of the most essential layered oxide materials in LIBs technology. Interestingly, there is an approximately linear relationship between the unit cell volume change and the Co/(Ni + Co) mole ratio in NCM materials. The volume change increases as the Co/(Ni + Co) molar ratio increases (charged to 4.4 V vs Li+/Li NCN111≈-1%, NCM811≈-6%). During delithiation/lithiation, nickel-rich NCMs (LiNixMnyCozO2:x+y+z= 1,x≥ 0.8) undergo similar structural changes to LNO materials. Taking NCM811 as an example, complex structural changes occur during the delithiation process: hexagonal to monoclinic (H1 → M), monoclinic to hexagonal (M → H2), and hexagon to hexagon (H2 → H3, >4.15 V vs Li+/Li). Among them, the H2 ↔ H3 phase transition leads to dramatic volume change, resulting in significant volume change/internal stress.

Another ternary layered oxide, NCA, has shown promising advantages in high-power applications such as electric vehicles (EVs). Al substitution is considered to improve the thermal stability of the material due to the stability of Al3+ at the tetrahedral sites. During the delithiation process, the NCA cathode undergoes a series of phase transitions similar to LNO materials: from the original H1 phase to the monoclinic (M) phase, followed by the H2 and H3 phases in turn. In particular, for the LiO2(NCA80) material, the maximum volume change during delithiation is about 5.63%, and a dramatic volume change is observed at about 4.2 V (corresponding to the H2–H3 phase transition). Similar to NCM materials, the volume change of NCA materials increases as Ni content increases (7.10% for NCA88 and 8.37% for NCA95).

#### 2.1.2 Spinel Oxide Materials

Spinel LiMn2O4has the advantages of low cost and excellent safety. Its unique 3D lithium-ion transport channel results in superior rate performance, making it a promising cathode material for lithium-ion batteries. Severe structural changes also occur in LiMn2O4during the Li-ion intercalation and deintercalation process. Three phases (cubic, orthorhombic, and tetragonal) are observed in the phase transition of LiMn2O4by in situ TEM analysis. During the discharging process, the cubic phase is transformed into the orthorhombic phase in the first stage and finally into the tetragonal phase. The calculated volume change from pristine LiMn2O4to fully delithiated Mn2O4is about -7.3%.

#### 2.1.3 Olivine Oxide Materials

Olivine LiFePO4, with a theoretical specific capacity of 170 mAh g−1, is widely used in hybrid and electric vehicles due to its low cost, good cycling performance, and high safety. LiFePO4undergoes a two-phase reaction mechanism (the first-order phase transition of LiFePO4↔ FePO4occurs with the progress of charge/discharge) and a two-phase solid-solution reaction mechanism (only one phase occurs during the charge and discharge process) across the flat voltage plateau. Due to the unique solid solution reaction mechanism, the partial molar volume of LiFePO4is constant regardless of the change in lithium content. The calculated volume change from pristine LiFePO4to fully delithiated FePO4is about -6.5%.

#### 2.1.4 Conversion-Type Materials (Sulfur Based)

Conversion-type materials (sulfur-based materials, such as sulfur, lithium sulfide, metal sulfides, etc.) are another common cathode material in sulfide-based ASSBs. These materials have the advantage of high theoretical specific capacity, but their operating voltage is lower than that of layered oxide cathode materials. The “shuttle effect” in liquid batteries can be eliminated due to the use of solid-state electrolytes, thus the cycling performance of the battery can be improved.  Conversion-type materials exhibit relatively large volume changes. Taking S as an example, Li2S will generate during the discharging process. Considering that the densities of S and Li2S are 2.03 and 1.66 g cm-3, respectively, the complete conversion of S to Li2S will result in about 80% volume expansion.

### 2.2 Anode Materials

#### 2.2.1 Lithium Intercalation Materials

Graphite materials have the advantages of low cost and low potential to lithium (0.01–0.2 V vs Li+/Li) and are one of the most successful anode materials for lithium-ion batteries. The theoretical specific capacity of graphite is 372 mAh g−1. Multi-step two-phase reactions through various stages (i.e., 1L, 4L, 3L, 2L, 2, and 1) can be observed in the Li-ion intercalation and deintercalation process, leading to a nonlinear volume change. The total volume expansion of fully lithiated graphite (LiC6) is 13.2%.

Li4Ti5O12has good rate performance and high safety and is often used in electric buses and other fields. The theoretical capacity of LTO is 175 mAh g−1, and a two-phase reaction of Li4Ti(IV)5O12→Li7Ti2(IV)Ti3(III)O12occurs during cycling. The volume change of LTO during cycling is only 0.2%, and it is called a zero-strain material. The zero-strain nature of LTO allows it to be used as a counter electrode for pressure measurement analysis of working electrodes.

#### 2.2.2 Lithium-Alloying Materials

Si has an extremely high theoretical capacity of 4200 mAh g−1, corresponding to Li22Si5. However, the fully lithiated Si phase at room temperature is Li15Si4, corresponding to 3579 mAh g−1. Crystalline silicon is amorphized during the first lithiation process and forms amorphous silicon (LixSi) through a two-phase reaction that appears around 170 mV versus Li+/Li. Further lithiation leads to the crystallization of amorphous silicon into Li15S4below about 60 mV versus Li+/Li. The volume expansion of Si during the first alloying process is nearly 300%. Si undergoes irreversible structural changes during the first charging-discharging process, e.g., during the first charging process, Si undergoes a crystalline to amorphous transition at a lower electrode potential than in subsequent cycles, during which the material remains amorphous.

Indium anode is also a widely used alloyed material in sulfide-based ASSBs. Indium can form a lithium-indium alloy during cycling and has a stable potential (0.62 V vs Li+/Li). Besides, the lithium-indium alloy also has good mechanical properties and chemical stability with sulfide SSEs. Indium is lithiated during the charging process into a slightly nonstoichiometric InLi1-xphase, accompanied by a transition from the pure indium tetragonal phase to the cubic InLi1-xphase. The volume of the tetragonal unit cell of InLi is 113.23 Å3, which is approximately two times larger than that of the pure In tetragonal phase (55.069 Å3). Therefore, the change from In ( = 15.71 cm3 mol−1) to InLi ( = 23.597 cm3 mol−1 of the stoichiometric phase) is accompanied by a volume expansion of 105.6%.

Lithium metal is considered an ideal anode material because of its high theoretical specific capacity (3860 mAh g−1) and the lowest redox potential (-3.04 V vs SHE). However, Li metal anodes suffer from large volume changes (related to the amount of deposition) during cycling. The infinite volume change of pure lithium metal stems from its “hostless” nature. In a constrained sulfide-based all-solid-state lithium metal battery, the stress evolution caused by this large volume change of the Li metal anode during cycling is considered to be the main cause of the nonuniform distribution of current density of the electrodes and results in the formation of lithium dendrites (micro-short circuits) as well as the mechanical failure of the battery. However, the complex stress evolution of Li metal anodes, including Li-alloy anodes and composite Li electrodes with flexible Li hosts during electrochemical cycling, is not yet well understood and needs careful examination in the future.

### 2.3 Solid-State Electrolyte Materials

Due to the narrow electrochemical stability window, the sulfide SSEs without any modification, will inevitably undergo decomposition while mixing with the conductive carbon materials in the layered oxide composite cathode, resulting in some irreversible stress changes. For example, during charging, sulfide SSEs will undergo oxidation reactions accompanied by volume reduction. In layered oxide composite cathode, the volume change caused by the oxidation of the sulfide SSEs is marginal for the total internal stress change compared with that of the active materials. However, the differences in volume changes and mechanical parameters (such as Young's modulus and bulk modulus, etc.) between the SSEs and the layered oxide will cause uneven local stress distribution inside the composite cathode, resulting in contact loss at the three-phase interface. It is worth noting that the operating voltage range of ASSBs is relatively narrow when sulfur-based conversion-type active materials are used in the composite cathodes (such as 1.5–3 V for sulfide-based all-solid-state Li–S batteries). In this case, reversible redox reactions of sulfide SSEs may occur, providing a considerable reversible capacity. Therefore, the contribution of the stress change caused by the reversible redox of the sulfide SSEs to the total electrode stress change is no longer negligible.

On the anode side, the electrochemical reduction will occur when the voltage is as low as the electrochemical decomposition voltage of sulfide SSEs. For example, in a composite anode consisting of LGPS, when voltage is below 0.6 V versus Li/Li+, LGPS will be electrochemically reduced to Li3P, LixGe, and other products, resulting in an increase in internal stress. In particular, a study reported by Jung et al. showed that in the LGPS/Gr composite anode, the internal stress change caused by the electrochemical reduction of LGPS was comparable to that caused by Li+ intercalation into graphite.  The measurement of the stress change caused by the volume changes of the SSEs and the corresponding electrochemo-mechanical issues will be discussed in detail in Section .

3 Principles and Devices of Internal Stress Measurement
-------------------------------------------------------

### 3.1 Principles of Internal Stress Measurement

As mentioned above, when a volume-constrained all-solid-state battery is cycling, the internal stress of the battery system changes due to the volume change of the cathode and anode active materials. The volume changes of the active materials and the pressure change of the battery system can be bridged by the mechanical properties of battery components: Young's modulus (E), shear modulus (G), bulk modulus (K), and Poisson's ratio (υ). The mechanical parameters of major electrode materials and sulfide SSEs are listed in Table . It is worth noting that the elastic properties of electrode materials are greatly affected by the degree of lithiation, which makes it challenging to evaluate real-time stress changes in ASSBs.

Table 2.
 Mechanical parameters of major electrode materials and sulfide SSEs

|  | Materials | Young's modulus E | Poisson's ratio | Shear modulus G | Bulk modulus K |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Cathode materials | LiCoO2 | 191.0 | 0.24 | 80 | 122.4 |
|  | LiNi0.33Co0.33Mn0.33O2 | 199.0 | 0.25 | 78 | 132.6 |
|  | LiFePO4 | 117.8 | 0.30 | 45.5 | 98.2 |
|  | LiMn2O4 | 194.0 | 0.26 | 77.0 | 134.7 |
|  | α-S8 | 12.8 | 0.23 | 5.2 | 8 |
|  | Li2S | 76.62 | 0.18 | 32.35 | 39.9 |
|  | TiS2(1T) | 228 | 0.11 | 102 | 97.4 |
|  | MoS2(2H) | 230 | 0.3 | 88 | 191.7 |
| Sulfide SSEs | β-Li3PS4 | 29.5 | 0.29 | 11.4 | 23.3 |
|  | 75Li2S–25P2S5 | 23 | 0.32 | 8.7 | 21 |
|  | Li7P3S11 | 21.9 | 0.35 | 8.1 | 23.9 |
|  | Li10GeP2S12 | 21.7 | 0.37 | 7.9 | 27.3 |
|  | Li6PS5Cl | 22.1 | 0.37 | 8.1 | 28.7 |
|  | Li6PS5Br | 25.3 | 0.35 | 9.3 | 29.0 |
|  | Li6PS5I | 30.3 | 0.33 | 11.3 | 29.9 |
| Anode materials | Li | 4.9 | 0.42 | 4.2 | 11.0 |
|  | In | 12.6 | 0.45 | 4.4 | 42.2 |
|  | Si | 96.0 | 0.29 | 62.0 | 90.0 |
|  | Sn | 50.5 | 0.34 | 21.1 | 54.4 |
|  | Li13Sn5 | 48.7 | 0.21 | 24.4 | 33.3 |
|  | Li2.25Al | 62.4 | 0.21 | – | – |
|  | LTO | 181.0 | 0.25 | 73.1 | 125.1 |
|  | Graphite | 32.0 | 0.31 | 12.0 | 28.1 |

* a) 

 2H and 1T represent trigonal prismatic coordination and octahedral coordination configuration, respectively.

Janek et al. proposed a simple mechanical model to estimate the relationship between material volume change and pressure change in ASSBs. They assumed that the all-solid-state battery is made of one single material (β-Li3PS4glass-ceramic), and the solid-state electrolyte is elastic enough to behave like a fluid in a system, which is constrained on all sides. The pressure change inside the battery can then be deduced by using the isothermal compressibility factor κTconsisting of Poisson's ratio υ and Young's modulusE.

(4)

By integrating the isothermal compressibility, Hencky's logarithmic strain can be obtained. WhereV0is the initial volume, and εvol= ΔV/V0is the volumetric strain.

(5)

(6)

The approximate relationship between the internal stress change, the bulk strain εvol, and the bulk modulusKof SE can be obtained by linearizing the logarithmic strain.

(7)

In an actual experiment, the internal stress change of the system can be measured by external pressure sensors or built-in FBG sensors.

### 3.2 Stress Measuring Devices

Until now, the stress measuring devices reported in sulfide-based ASSBs mainly fall into two categories: the external pressure sensor type and the built-in optical FBG sensor type. The former detects the stress change during cycling by placing an external pressure sensor outside the battery system, while the latter uses a built-in optical FBG sensor to measure the battery system pressure indirectly through the conversion between the Bragg wavelength and the physical parameters of the FBG sensor.

#### 3.2.1 External Pressure Sensor

Some pressure-measuring devices in sulfide-based ASSBs reported so far are shown in Figure . A typical pressure-measuring device reported by McDowell et al. consists mainly of three parts: a volume-constrained mechanical framework, a battery cell, and a pressure sensor (Figure ). Among them, in order to ensure the reliability of the stress measurement, a reasonably designed mechanical framework is reasonably designed. This fixture can apply uniform pressure to the battery by tightening the four bolts with a precision torque wrench. Therefore, the influence caused by the relaxation of the battery components can be minimized.

Figure 2

a) Schematic diagram of the assembly and pressure measurement of an anode/LPSC/cathode cell. Reproduced with permission. Copyright 2021, Elsevier. b) Schematic of in situ pressure-monitoring in an ASSB. Reproduced with permission. Copyright 2022, Elsevier. c) Image of a fully assembled lithium-ion battery coin cell with FBG sensor integrated. Reproduced according to the terms of the CC-BY license. Copyright 2017, The Authors, published by MDPI AG. d) Photographs of the optical fiber embedded within the InLixanode of an InLi|Li3PS4|LTO ASSB. Reproduced with permission. Copyright 2022, The Authors, published by Springer Nature. e) The working principle of an FBG optical sensor. Reproduced with permission. Copyright 2022, The Authors, published by Springer Nature. f) The scheme of the birefringence phenomena in an FBG sensor when a relatively high external pressure is applied. Reproduced according to the terms of the CC-BY license. Copyright 2022, The Authors, published by Springer Nature.

At present, commercially available pressure sensors mainly include capacitive sensors, resistive sensors, piezoelectric sensors, and piezoresistive sensors. These sensors can convert the measured pressure into a corresponding electrical signal output (voltage or current).

Take the most widely used force-sensing resistor (FSR) pressure sensor as an example. The metal strain gauge will deform or stretch under external pressure, changing its resistance value. The relationship between the deformation of the metal strain gauge and the change in resistance can be expressed by Equation :

(8)wherekrepresents the sensitivity coefficient;Rrepresents the resistance of the metal strain gauge; ΔRrepresents the change in resistance;Lrepresents the length of the strain gauge; ΔLrepresents the change in the length of the strain gauge.
The key specifications of pressure sensor performance include linearity, hysteresis, temperature sensitivity, creep and repeatability, etc.
 1. Linearity: Linearity is defined as the parameter of the accuracy of the corresponding relationship between the load and the electrical signal output of the sensor.
2. Hysteresis: Hysteresis can be determined by observing the output signal of the sensor when it is loaded and unloaded. Hysteresis will significantly affect the symmetry of the measured pressure.
3. Temperature sensitivity: Temperature sensitivity is defined as the stability of output sensitivity when the ambient temperature changes. It is generally measured in the unit of drift generated within the range of every 10 °C, such as 0.05% F.S./10 °C.Temperature sensitivity drift can be reduced by temperature compensation.
4. Creep and repeatability: Creep is related to the time-dependent permanent deformation of a material when subjected to constant pressure. Repeatability refers to producing reliable results even over a long measuring time.

Therefore, selecting an appropriate pressure sensor according to the different solid-state battery systems is crucial. Nevertheless, the performance parameters of pressure sensors are rarely introduced in the reported literature. In addition, another factor affecting pressure measurement accuracy is pressure baseline changes caused by mechanical relaxation. Some work compensated for baseline changes in the measured pressure curve, while others rested the battery system for a long time enough to make the baseline changes negligible. 

#### 3.2.2 Built-in Fiber Optic Sensor

As shown in Figure , the built-in optical FBG sensor stress measurement device needs to be skillfully implanted into the battery system. As illustrated in Figure , when light travels through the optical fiber, the FBG sensor acts as a reflector for Bragg wavelength (λB), which is defined as λB=  2neffΛ, whereneffis the effective refractive index andΛis the Bragg grating period. Any changes in temperature (T), hydraulic pressure (P), or strain (ε) that occur around the FBG sensor will modifyneffand/orΛ, which will be translated into a change in reflected wavelength, visualized as a peak shift (ΔλB).

FBG sensors can obtain rich thermal/mechanical information. However, when we only want to focus on certain system information, the richness of information will be a double-edged sword. Therefore, when we want to detect stress changes in solid-state batteries with FBG sensors, some settings must be made to ignore the contributions coming fromTand hydraulicPvariations.  First, the battery tests should be performed in a temperature-controlled climate chamber to eliminate any fluctuations in ambient temperature and ensure that the temperature change of the battery during cycling is negligible. Besides, low-loading active materials should be used to minimize inherent heat release and gas generation to ensure limited hydraulic pressure.

When the FBG sensor is strained under these conditions, the basic principle of the FBG sensor can be expressed by Equation :

(9)where λB,0is the Bragg wavelength at the initial moment, ρeis the effective photo-elastic coefficient,p11andp12are the strain optical coefficients of the fiber, and ν is the Poisson's ratio. The above parameters are known for silica fibers. The measured strain ε can be directly converted to stress by using Hooke's law: σ =εE, whereEis Young's modulus of the silica fiber, equal to 69.9 GPa. In addition, the stress-wavelength shift curve of FBG sensors can be calibrated first to obtain the real-time stress value in the linear region.
Interestingly, peak splitting occurs in FBG sensors when a relatively high external pressure is applied. This phenomenon, known as birefringence, is caused by the elliptical deformation of the fiber driven by an external force field (Figure ). This symmetry break causes the initial effective refractive index to be anisotropic, resulting in two distinct refractive index values (nxandny), where thexpolarization (nx) varies much more than theypolarization (ny). Thus, when a sufficiently high lateral load is applied to the FBG sensor, the single resonant peak of the FBG (λB, given by λB=  2neffΛ) splits into two peaks (λxandλy).

The birefringence (B) is given by Equation : 

(10)wheren||andn⊥are the refractive index in parallel and perpendicular directions to the applied load, Δnxand Δnyare the refractive index changes inxandylight polarization due to the externally applied load, andneff,0is the initial effective refractive index.B0is the birefringence caused by grating fabrication and is negligible for low birefringence FBG sensors. By decouplingλxandλyand combining them with a calibrated pressure-wavelength working curve, the local stress information of the electrode can be obtained.
Table compares the advantages and disadvantages of the external pressure sensors and built-in FBG sensors. In general, the main advantage of the external pressure sensor is that it is simple to operate and can directly and nondestructively track and measure the stress change in the battery system. However, the stress change measured by the external pressure sensor is only in the axial direction of the cell scale. Since the built-in FBG sensor needs to introduce the optical fiber into the battery system, the operation is complicated, and the battery structure will inevitably be damaged. The biggest feature of the FBG sensor is that the local stress in the axial and longitudinal directions can be obtained at the electrode scale, which is currently impossible for external pressure sensors.

Table 3.
 Advantages and disadvantages of the external pressure sensors and built-in FBG sensors

| Pressure-measuring devices | Destructive | Operational complexity | Stress scale | Local stress |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| External pressure sensors | × | × | Device level | × |
| Build-in FBG sensors | √ | √ | Material level | √ (Axial + longitudinal) |

4 Application
-------------

Accurately measuring internal stress changes during battery cycling is crucial to understanding the electrochemo-mechanical effects. Depending on the degree of volume change caused by the reaction mechanism (intercalation/conversion/alloying reactions) and the variation in mechanical property parameters, the internal stress changes from different active materials into devices tend to vary widely. The magnitude of the change in internal stress will affect the degree of electrode structure/interface evolution, resulting in mechanical degradation of battery capacity. In addition, the mechanical information provided by the pressure measurement is also related to the electrochemical behaviors, such as the reaction mechanism of the active materials, the state of charge (SoC), and the state of health (SoH) of the battery. Therefore, the pressure measurement can bridge the gap between mechanics and electrochemistry. In the following sections, the application of pressure measurement to sulfide-based ASSB materials and devices is reviewed.

### 4.1 Cathode Active Materials: Electrochemistry and Mechanics

Layered oxide cathode materials are widely used in sulfide-based ASSBs. Janek's group systematically measured the pressure changes of different materials (NCM, NCA, and LCO) during cycling by using a zero-strain LTO anode as the counter electrode. As shown in Figure , the experimentally measured pressure changes for these three materials are comparable (10−2 MPa level, depending on areal capacity). In addition, the changing trend of measured pressure of the three materials is consistent with the volume change obtained by crystallography; that is, the measured pressure of NCM and NCA materials decreases during the charging process and increases during the discharging process, while the LCO material shows the opposite trend. When matched with the same anode, the opposite pressure changes of NCM and LCO materials will lead to different electrochemo-mechanical effects, resulting in different degrees of mechanical damage to the battery structure. Interestingly, McDowell's group recently reported that when lithium metal is used as an anode, the ASSB with NCM/LCO as the active material shows completely different micro-short-circuit behavior. Under identical operating conditions (current density of 2 mA cm−2 and areal capacity of 6 mAh cm−2), the Li/LPSC/NMC811 battery exhibited micro-short-circuit behavior in the first charging process (indicated by a sudden voltage drop and an overcharged capacity far exceeding the theoretical areal capacity). In contrast, the Li/LPSC/LCO battery was charged normally in the first cycle. This phenomenon is very interesting as it may incorporate information on the micro-short-circuit failure mechanism caused by the “internal stress” (stress coupling between cathode and anode) generated in Li metal full cells, which cannot be obtained in the Li/Li symmetric cell. The structure of the symmetrical cell is destined to be incapable of considering the influence of internal stress (one side plating and the other side plating, the system is in an internal stress balance). Recently, Budiman et al. performed electrochemo-mechanical analysis on NCM/LGPS/LiIn and LCO/LGPS/LiIn configuration batteries by finite element analysis (FEA). In this study, the authors simulated the stress distribution within the SSE caused by electrode volume changes and further mechanical damage behavior, including plastic deformation, interfacial debonding, and crack propagation. The simulation showed that the most severe mechanical damage to SSE occurred when cathode and anode active materials exhibited opposite volume changes (such as the NCM cathode shrinkage and the LiIn anode expansion during the charging process). While different electrochemo-mechanical effects in NCM/LCO-Li full cells make intuitive sense when LiIn is replaced by a Li metal anode, their influence on the lithium plating/stripping behavior or SSE mechanical damage and the resulting micro-short-circuit of the Li metal anode still needs to be further studied. Although challenging, tracking the pressure changes in the battery during cycling may shed light on understanding these complex electrochemo-mechanical effects. The crystal structure design of Ni-rich layered cathode materials greatly influences their electrochemo-mechanical effects. Jung et al. investigated the structure evolution of two different Ni-rich materials, a commercial-grade LiO2(NCA80) having randomly oriented grains and a full-concentration gradient LiO2(FCG75) having radially oriented rod-shaped grains by in-situ pressure measurement. As shown in Figure , NCA80 exhibited a lower pressure drop (-0.15 MPa) than FCG75 (-0.30 MPa) after the first charging process. This result directly indicates the formation of voids or cracks in NCA80. The pressure of NCA80 is higher than that of FCG75 after one cycle, although fewer Li+ ions are intercalated in the lattice of NCA80 compared to FCG75 (corresponding to a lower discharge capacity), suggesting severe mechanical degradation of the NCA80 electrode.

Figure 3

a–c) Change of the net stress σ11for ASSBs with different electrode materials. Reproduced with permission. Copyright 2018, The Royal Society of Chemistry. d) Operando electrochemical pressiometry profiles for FCG75 and NCA80 during first charge-discharge at 0.1 C and 30 °C. Reproduced with permission. Copyright 2019, Wiley-VCH. e) Cycling behavior and pressure change of a Li0.3In0.7/Li7P3S11/S:Li7P3S11:Ketjen black (50:30:20 wt%) ASSB cycled at room temperature. Reproduced with permission. Copyright 2016, American Chemical Society. f) Discharge/charge profiles combined with the in-situ cell pressure evolution of an all-solid-state Li–Se battery. Reproduced with permission. Copyright 2022, Wiley-VCH. g) Exemplary potential profile combined with the in situ measured pressure change of an In/InLi|LPSCB|LPSCB-MWCNTs cell during cycling (top) and a magnification of the data for one cycle (bottom). Reproduced according to the terms of the CC-BY license. Copyright 2021, The Authors, published by Wiley-VCH.

Compared with layered oxide materials, the volume changes of conversion cathode materials are much larger. Janek's group monitored the pressure changes during cycling in a Li0.3In0.7/Li7P3S11/S: Li7P3S11: Ketjen black 50:30:20 wt% cell (Figure ). In their experiment, a pressure decrease during discharging was observed. Interestingly, the authors seem perplexed by this result, as they expected the S8→ Li2S reaction to being a volume-increasing process. In fact, since the pressure sensor monitors the resultant force in the direction of σ11, the decrease in net pressure during the discharging process means that the net volume change of the battery is dominated by the Li–In anode. When a conversion-type material with a larger volume change (e.g., Se, which exhibits a 98% volume change when fully lithiated) is used on the cathode side, the net pressure change is likely to be controlled by the cathode. Recently, Sun's group confirmed this possibility in an all-solid-state Li–Se battery (Figure ). In their experiments, the net pressure change of the battery was determined by the volume change of the Se cathode. However, since most of the conversion active materials do not contain lithium, zero-strain LTO cannot be directly used as the counter electrode, and it is still a challenge to measure the pressure change during the cycling of a single conversion active material electrode.

Some sulfide SSEs can undergo reversible redox reactions within a specific voltage range and have also been reported as conversion-type cathode active materials. However, the complex redox reaction mechanism remains unclear. Based on the high sensitivity and fast response between electrochemical reactions and specific volume changes (pressure changes), tracking electrochemo-mechanical changes via in situ pressure measurement can be used to reveal possible reaction pathways. Wang et al. reported an ASSB (In/InLi|LPSCB|LPSCB-MWCNTs) using Li6PS5Cl0.5Br0.5as the cathode active material. In this work, pressure measurement is first used to reveal the reaction mechanism. As shown in Figure  (bottom), the measured pressure curves show nonlinear behavior with three distinct regions during the charging process. Considering that the partial molar volume change of the Li–In anode  = +7.89 cm3 mol−1 is constant, it is suggested that at least three reactions with different volume changes are involved on the cathode side. The potential reaction mechanism can be further given by comparing the partial molar volume change of the cathode with the partial molar volume change of the Li–In anode. If we suppose that the PS43− phase formed by a reaction of Li2S and P0 (representing as (Li2S)0.75(P2S5)0.25) should first be converted to (Li2S)0.67(P2S5)0.33(representing as Li4P2S7, P2S74−), and finally to (Li2S)0.50(P2S5)0.50(representing as Li2P2S6, P2S62−) during charging. Therefore, the corresponding reaction volume changes can be calculated as follows:
 * Reaction (1)-Li3PS4(LPS) phase formation:

(11)
* Reaction (2)-LPS oxidation I:

(12)
* Reaction (3)-LPS oxidation II:

(13)

Only reaction (2) can lead to a decrease in Δpupon charging. Therefore, here, we assumed that the oxidation of the LPS glass phase starts in region 2. Consequently, the formation of the LPS glassy phase occurs in region 1. Although the complete electrochemical reaction pathway is more complex, the above-simplified reaction volume can explain the observed Δptrend, providing a new perspective for revealing electrochemical reaction mechanisms and pathways.

### 4.2 Anode Active Materials: Electrochemistry and Mechanics

Lithium metal is considered the “Holy Grail” among anode materials. Due to the thermodynamic instability between the sulfide SSEs and Li metal, however, interphases will be generated at the interface. Due to the partial molar volume difference between the interphase and the Li metal, the formation and evolution of the interphase at the interface will affect the battery pressure. Therefore, pressure measurement can provide a new electrochemo-mechanical perspective on interface evolution. Lee et al. systematically investigated two types of representative SSEs (LSPS and LPSCl)/Li interfaces evolution by in situ monitoring the pressure changes in SSE/Li symmetric cells (Figure ). Compared with LPSCl symmetric cells, LSPS symmetric cells exhibit a more obvious pressure drop at open circuit voltage (OCV). This is owing to the formation of electrically conductive Li–Sn alloys upon contact between LSPS and lithium metal, which allows the interfacial reactions to continue. The authors further investigated the relationship between pressure changes and the electrochemical processes in LSPS symmetric cells. Due to the formation of the electrochemical interface, as shown in Figure , the symmetric cell pressure drops more rapidly. Interestingly, when the short circuit caused by the penetration of lithium dendrites occurs in the symmetric cell, the pressure change tends to plateau (dP/dtapproaches zero). This electrochemomechanical response feature suggests that pressure measurement can serve as a powerful tool to detect short-circuit failures in Li-metal ASSBs.

Figure 4

a) Stack pressure evolution after pressing to an initial stack pressure of 30 MPa and holding at open circuit for two different symmetric cells based on LSPS (red) and LPSC (blue). Reproduced with permission. Copyright 2021, American Chemical Society. b) Voltage curves (red) and stack pressure profiles (blue) of two LSPS symmetric cells (operated at 0.5 mA cm−2 (solid lines), and held at OCV (dotted lines). Reproduced with permission. Copyright 2021, American Chemical Society. c,d) Charge-discharge voltage profiles NCM/Li ASSB and corresponding pressure changes for c) uncoated and d) In/LixIn-coated thin LMAs. Reproduced with permission. Copyright 2022, Elsevier. e) Capacity-normalized pressure change difference (Δ(ΔP)Q) as a function of cycle number. Reproduced with permission. Copyright 2022, Elsevier. f) Time-resolved voltage (top), external cycling pressure (middle), and an internal optical signal (bottom) for an LTO-LiIn ASSB cycled at C/30 (5.83 mA g−1) and 25 °C in an operando mode. Reproduced with permission. Copyright 2022, The Authors, published by Springer Nature. g) Stress evolution obtained from the FBG sensor placed inside Li–In anode by demodulating the optical signal (blue curve). Reproduced according to the terms of the CC-BY license. Copyright 2022, The Authors, published by Springer Nature. h) 2D stack view of the operando collected spectra by the FBG sensor placed between LTO/Li–In interface, with the corresponding galvanostatic charge/discharge cycle. A typical birefringence phenomenon could be found. Reproduced according to the terms of the CC-BY license. Copyright 2022, The Authors, published by Springer Nature. i) Galvanostatic cycle (top), λxand λyevolution (middle), and operando stress evolution obtained internally by the FBG sensor and with the experimental calibration of the sensor (bottom). Reproduced according to the terms of the CC-BY license. Copyright 2022, The Authors, published by Springer Nature. j–l) Galvanostatic cycling of j) Sb, k) Sn, and l) Si composite anodes in ASSBs with LPSC solid electrolyte and NMC-111 cathodes, along with the measured uniaxial stress (stack pressure) changes in each cell. Reproduced with permission. Copyright 2021, Elsevier.

A recent work reported by Lim et al. confirms this possibility. As shown in Figure , the authors monitored the in situ pressure changes during cycling in both NCM/uncoated Li and NCM/LixIn-coated Li batteries. Since the volume change during Li plating/stripping is much larger than that of the NCM materials, the periodic linear pressure changes are mainly dominated by the Li metal anode when the battery is cycled normally. In NCM/uncoated Li battery, the pressure no longer changes linearly when a short circuit behavior occurs. This is caused by the penetration and growth of Li dendrites in the mechanical stress-caused defects within the SSE. The authors further normalized the pressure change differences (Δ(ΔP)) with respect to the discharge capacity (Q) at each cycle (denoted as Δ(ΔP)Q) (Figure ). The capacity-normalized pressure change difference Δ(ΔPQ) was calculated by the following equation: Δ(ΔPQ) = Δ(ΔP)/QdischargewhereQdischargeand Δ(ΔP) is corresponding discharge capacities and pressure change difference at a corresponding cycle. The decrease in Δ(ΔP)Qis associated with the penetrating growth of Li dendrites within SSE. Therefore, the growth mechanism of Li dendrites can be effectively predicted by monitoring the Δ(ΔP)Qvalue.

Due to the severe interfacial reactions and microshort circuit issues, lithium metal is difficult to be practically applied in the short term. As an alternative, Li-alloy anodes are expected to achieve high energy density ASSBs due to their high specific capacity and low potential. Among them, Li–In alloys are the most widely used alloy anode materials in the laboratory. Although Li–In anode and sulfide SSE are thermodynamically and kinetically stable, Li–In anode also exhibits huge volume changes during cycling, causing serious electrochemo-mechanical problems in batteries. Recently, Tarascon's group introduced the FBG sensors into ASSBs and systematically measured the stress evolution inside the Li–In anode and at the anode/SSE interface (with LTO as the counter electrode). As a comparison, the author also used an external pressure sensor to measure the pressure change. In the pressure measurement inside the Li–In anode, although the pressure changes measured by the external pressure sensor and the FBG sensor are symmetrical and periodic, the stress change monitored in the FBG sensor is an order of magnitude larger than that of the external pressure sensor (Figure ). It is particularly worth pointing out that in this work, for the first time, the local stress evolution between the Li–In anode/SSE interface was monitored through the “birefringence effect” of the FBG Sensor (Figure ). Measuring such local stress evolution at the interface is essential for a deeper understanding of the electrochemo-mechanical effects in ASSBs. In addition to Li–In anode, Han et al. systematically investigated the pressure evolution in ASSBs with various composite alloy anodes (Sb, Sn, and Si) (Figure ). Since the volume change of NCM111 on the cathode side is smaller than that of the alloy anode, the net pressure change is controlled by the alloy anode. A typical feature of alloy anodes is the structural change that occurs during the first cycle, which is reflected in the mechanical information as the most severe stress hysteresis and irreversibility during the first cycle. This result indicates the sensitivity of the pressure measurement to the response of electrode structure evolution. It is worth noting that the particle size for the stress evolution of the Si anode was studied intensively in this work. The authors found that the Si nanoparticles showed less stress change than the Si microparticles by normalizing the stress change and the areal capacity. Smaller normalized stress variation may lead to less electrochemo-mechanical degradation, thus improving cycling stability.

### 4.3 Inactive Components: Electrochemistry and Mechanics

Besides the active materials, the mechanical properties of the inactive components (SSE and binder) in the composite electrode are equally critical to the electrode structure stability. Wang et al. investigated the effect of thiophosphate SSE with different crystallinity (7525-glass and crystalline β-Li3PS4) on the electrochemical performance of ASSBs. As illustrated in Figure , the redox processes of two SSEs can be correlated with pressure changes by cyclic voltammetry (CV) test and in-situ pressure monitoring. β-Li3PS4has a more severe redox than 7525-glass, which will lead to a more severe volume change (pressure change). Due to the mismatch in the volume change between the SSE and the cathode active material, more severe physical contact loss and cracks will occur (Figure ), deteriorating the electrochemical performance of the battery. Similar conclusions were obtained in work reported by Teo et al. The authors investigated the electrochemo-mechanical behavior of glassy (1.5Li2S–0.5P2S5–LiI) and crystalline (Li6PS5Cl) thiophosphate SSEs by in situ pressure measurement (Figure ). Likewise, crystalline Li6PS5Cl has more pronounced redox reactions and pressure changes. Compared with sulfide SSEs, halide SSEs have recently attracted great attention due to their wider electrochemical stability window and better chemical stability. However, the difference in mechanical properties between sulfide and halide SSEs remains unclear. Han et al. investigated the electrochemo-mechanical effects of sulfide (Li6PS5Cl0.5Br0.5, LPSX) and halide (Li3YCl6, LYC) SSEs on battery performance by pressure measurement. As shown in Figure , the poly-NCA electrode with LPSX showed an abrupt drop in pressure at the beginning of the first charging process. This feature is more pronounced in the capacity-derivative differential pressure (or differential electrochemical pressiometry (DEP)) curve. In addition, the minimum point of the DEP curve of P/LPSX (which can be regarded as an indicator of SOC as discussed in Section ) shifts in the positive direction compared with P/LYC, reflecting the delayed charging due to the more severe decomposition reaction of LPSX (or Li+ deintercalation). It is necessary to consider the electrochemo-mechanical effect of SSEs as a design factor for the mechanical stability of the electrode structure. A suitable SSE candidate should consider its mechanical properties and the electrochemical stability window.

Figure 5

a) Cyclic voltammetry tests voltage steps (top), current response (middle), and corresponding pressure response (bottom) upon cycling of ASSBs using 7525-glass/C65 composite (red) and β-Li3PS4/C65 composite (blue) as working electrodes. Reproduced according to the terms of the CC-BY license. Copyright 2021, The Authors, published by Wiley-VCH. b) The SEM images of the corresponding composites, 7525-glass/C65 (top) and β-Li3PS4/C65 (bottom), after the CV tests. Reproduced with permission. Copyright 2021, The Authors, published by Wiley-VCH. c) CV profiles, current response, and pressure response of Super C65 electrodes glassy SE (1.5Li2S–0.5P2S5–LiI) (left) and crystalline SE (Li6PS5Cl) (right). Reproduced according to the terms of the CC-BY license. Copyright 2022, The Authors, published by IOP Publishing Ltd. d) First-cycle charge voltage profiles and corresponding pressure change (and DEP profiles) for poly-NCA electrodes employing LYC or LPSX. Reproduced with permission. Copyright 2021, Wiley-VCH. e) First cycle charge-discharge voltage profiles and corresponding pressure changes for NCM electrodes using pristine and vulcanized BR binder. Reproduced with permission. Copyright 2022, Elsevier.

In addition to considering the mechanical properties of SSEs in the composite electrodes, the capability of the SSE separator to resist the stress generated during the manufacturing process and the volume changes of the electrode active materials during cycling are also closely related to their mechanical properties. An ideal SSE separator requires low porosity (to achieve high ionic conductivity) as well as moderate elastic modulus (including Young's modulus (E), shear modulus (G), bulk modulus (K), etc.) and fracture toughness,KIC. In general, sulfide SSEs have favorable mechanical properties (lower Pugh's ratio, e.g., LPSCl with aG/Bof 0.28, whereGandBare shear and bulk modulus, respectively) so that densification of the electrolytes can be achieved at lower external pressures (e.g., 360 MPa) and room temperature. In comparison to sulfide SSEs, another typical class of inorganic solid-state electrolytes, oxide SSEs, due to distinctive differences in mechanical properties (e.g., Pugh's ratio of 0.54 for LLZO), require a much higher external pressure (up to hundreds of GPa) and high temperature (up to 1000 °C) to achieve densification. In addition, the higher hardness (H) and elastic modulus (hardnessH= 9.2, 9.1, 7.1 GPa, and Young's modulusE= 200, 150, 115 GPa for LLTO, LLZO, and LATP, respectively) of oxide SSEs than sulfide SSEs (detailed in Table ) make them less prone to elastic deformation. Therefore, it can be expected that greater stress will be generated at the electrolyte/electrode interface in pure oxide-based ASSBs, leading to more severe electrochemo-mechanical issues.

Particularly, when Li metal is used as an anode in ASSBs, the mechanical properties of the oxide and sulfide SSE will exhibit different effects on the working conditions of the Li metal anode. Monroe and Newman proposed a classical model for elaborating the suppression of Li dendrite growth and SSE mechanical parameters. According to their model, dendrite growth would be suppressed when the shear modulus of SSE is greater than twice that of Li metal (≈4 GPa). Therefore, the high mechanical modulus of oxide SSE should suppress dendrite growth, but the actual situation is complicated. However, the growth of lithium dendrites has been reported in many oxide SSEs (including LLZO, LLZTO, LATP, etc.), where the shear modulus of LLZO (60 GPa) is more than tenfold higher exceeds that of Li metal, contrary to Monroe and Newman's theory. This result suggests a more complex micro-short-circuit mechanism in ASSBs. For sulfide SSEs, their Young's modulus (e.g.,E(LPSCl) = 22 GPa) is not much different from that of Li metal (7.8 GPa), and the fracture toughnessKICis lower (e.g.,KICLPSCl = 0.23 MPa m1/2), so the internal stress during battery cycling is likely to lead to a heterogeneous distribution of lithium protrusions, which increases the localKICof the SSE/Li interface. The increased localKICwill cause the cracks to occur within the SSE layer, and then the lithium dendrites will grow along the cracks, resulting in the short-circuit phenomenon. For oxide SSEs, due to their relatively high Young's modulus (e.g.,E(LLZO) = 175 GPa) andKIC(e.g.,KICLLZO = 1.25 MPa m1/2), the internal stress of the battery may lead to plastic flow of lithium rather than crack growth within the SSE. In this case, micro-short-circuit behavior in oxide SSEs may be dominated by internal lithium nucleation (lithium dendrites propagate through voids and grain boundaries with preferential ion pathways) rather than the electrochemo-mechanical damage/dendrite penetration behavior in sulfide SSEs.

Scalable sheet-type electrodes are necessary for the practical application of sulfide-based ASSBs. Due to their key role in maintaining microstructural integrity, binders are indispensable in the preparation of flexible electrodes. Kwon et al. reported a novel vulcanized butadiene rubber (BR) binder with excellent mechanical properties, which can partially suppress the electromechanical effects during cycling, thereby improving the electrochemical performance of batteries. The authors monitored the pressure changes during the cycling of NCM/LTO batteries with pristine and vulcanized BR binders. As depicted in Figure , the overall pressure change trend is consistent with the lattice volume change of Ni-rich layered oxides upon the (de)lithiation process. However, with a lower discharge depth, the cells using pristine BR binder showed higher stress values than those using vulcanized BR binder. The authors assumed that higher pressure change reflects the formation of cracks and/or voids caused by electrochemo-mechanical degradation. In addition, they quantified the crack area fractions in the bulk and interfacial regions using cross-section field-emission scanning electron microscopy backscattered electron mode (FESEM-BSE) to examine the microstructural evolution of NCM electrodes with pristine and vulcanized BR binders after the first charging and discharging process. After the first charging, the crack area fractions in both bulk and interfacial regions increased significantly in both batteries. However, the area fraction of cracks in the interfacial region of the battery using a pristine BR binder is higher than the vulcanized BR binder. After the first discharging, the average area fraction of cracks in the interfacial region of the battery using a pristine BR binder is also slightly higher than that of the vulcanized BR binder. In addition, the area fraction of cracks in the bulk region showed similar values after the first charging and discharging. These results suggest that the debonding of the electrode/electrolyte interface has a more severe effect on electrochemo-mechanical degradation than the contact loss inside the electrode. This work indicates the possibility of complementary analysis using FESEM-BSE and operando pressure measurements to reveal the evolution of electro-mechanical degradation.

### 4.4 Correlation of State of Charge (SOC) of the Batteries and Changes of Stresses of the Batteries

Accurately estimating the state of charge (SOC) of the batteries is crucial but also challenging. Many electrochemical techniques based on measurable parameters (e.g., voltage, current, impedances, and their differentiates) have been developed to estimate the SOC of batteries. However, due to the fact that these techniques generally require measurements at low current densities or at open circuit potential in order to exclude the effects of polarizations, as well as complex computations, the SOC's estimation accuracy will decrease and become more complicated as the battery ages. The correspondence between the battery pressure and the volume change (related to the electrochemical process) makes it possible to track SOC changes roughly but also quickly. The sensitivity and simplicity of estimating battery SOC by pressure measurements have been demonstrated in liquid batteries. Due to the intrinsic rigidity, the pressure changes in ASSBs will be more pronounced. Therefore, pressure measurement can provide a new tool for estimating the SOC of ASSBs. Jung et al. tracked the SOC of NCM/graphite full cells by the operando differential electrochemical pressiometry (DEP) method. Figure shows the voltage curves and pressure changes (ΔPGr) of NCM/graphite cells with different n/p ratios. ΔPGrwas estimated from the pressure change in NCM/Gr battery minus that in NCM/LTO battery. The results show that, as the n/p ratio increases, the minimum DEP value (red diamonds in the figure) shifts in a positive direction during the charging process. The maximum point value moves in the negative direction in the discharging process. Because the total Gr electrode volume change is caused by Li+ intercalation (or deintercalation), this observation implies an association between DEP profiles and specific SOCs. Compared to traditional voltage-based estimation methods, pressure measurements are more sensitive to SOC (especially for materials with voltage plateaus during cycling, such as LFP), making it more convenient to estimate SOC. In addition, since the pressure can respond instantaneously to the lithium content in the electrode, it can effectively detect the SOC difference caused by self-discharge compared to the traditional ampere-hour counting method.

Figure 6

a–c) Charge discharge voltage profiles of each electrode, corresponding pressure change curves (ΔP), and DEP profiles (dP/dt) of Gr electrodes for NCM/Gr cells with n/p ratios of a) 1.2, b) 1.4, and c) 1.7 at 2nd cycle, 0.1C, and 30 °C. Reproduced with permission. Copyright 2020, Wiley-VCH. d–f) Schematic of stress compensation by using 55:45 wt% NCM-811:LCO cathode composite. Reproduced with permission. Copyright 2018, The Royal Society of Chemistry.

5 Summary and Outlook
---------------------

Through the external pressure sensor or the built-in optical FBG sensor, the internal stress change during the cycling process of the solid-state battery can be obtained. This review overviews the recent work on stress-measuring techniques and their applications in sulfide-based ASSBs. It is expected that stress(pressure)-measuring techniques in ASSBs, including sulfide-based ASSBs, will have rapid development in the next few years, and some future perspectives of the techniques are outlined below.
 * 1) The accuracy and resolution of pressure (or stress)-measuring techniques need further improvement. For example, an FSR pressure sensor with force resolution better than 0.01% full scale is expected when studying active electrode materials with small volume changes (such as NCM materials). In the pressure measuring experiment using the external pressure sensor, the pressure change interferences caused by the relaxation of mechanical components are not negligible. Therefore, rational designs are required to suppress the mechanical noise and keep the pressure baseline as stable as possible. In many pressure measurement experiments using external pressure sensors, the actual measured pressure is the addition of the total resultant force of the cathode and anode stress changes, while the contributions of the stress changes of these two electrodes are often inconsistent. Therefore, it is necessary to decouple the cathode and anode stress contributions separately. The stress decoupling methods for electrodes composed of lithium-containing and lithium-free active materials are different. For lithium-containing cathode or anode active materials, such as NCM, LCO, Li2S, Li metal, Li–In alloy, etc., the zero-strain LTO counter electrode can be directly used to decouple the electrode stress.  For lithium-free active materials, such as S, graphite, Si, etc., it is more difficult to decouple the stress changes of their corresponding electrodes. Using the LTO electrode as a bridge is a feasible method to deduct the stress contribution of the other electrode from the stress change of the full cell (as reported in an NCM-Gr battery). In addition, it has been proved that decoupling of the pressure/volume change of a single cathode electrode in liquid battery systems by using (electro)chemically prelithiated LTO as a counter electrode. However, its application in sulfide-based ASSBs remains to be explored and verified. Comparing the differential pressure (dP/dV) and differential capacity (dQ/dV) data is also needed to correlate the electrochemical-stress relationship, as stress changes may not be apparent in the raw measurement data.
* 2) Systematic local stress measurement of electrodes should be emphasized, and it is still lacking in the literature. During battery cycling, the uneven electrochemical reaction within the electrode will lead to uneven local stress distribution and result in serious electrochemo-mechanical degradation of the batteries. Apparently, the local stress cannot be measured by only a single external pressure sensor. Using an optical FBG sensor is considered to be able to obtain local stress information to a certain extent. In the follow-up experiments, more sophisticated stress measuring methods, such as pressure sensor arrays or the combination of multiple groups of optical FBG sensors, may be able to obtain more detailed information on local stress distribution at the electrode/cell/module level.

Due to their non-destructiveness and cost-friendliness, external pressure sensor arrays have been applied to monitor the local stress distribution of electrodes and the mechanical distribution of battery modules in conventional liquid LIBs. As shown in Figure , local stress mapping of anode lithium deposition can be obtained using an external pressure sensor array in a single cell. The analysis of nonuniform stress distribution can provide some useful information for improving local lithium deposition and detecting lithium dendrite growth. In addition, in a battery module/pack composed of parallel-series connected cells, the heterogeneity caused by the manufacturing process and the non-uniform working conditions will lead to inconsistency between individual cells. Inconsistency between individual cells will lead to an uneven distribution of internal stress in the module/pack, posing challenges to the safety design and cyclic performance of the batteries. Therefore, accurate monitoring of the stress distribution at the cell level and mechanical inhomogeneity at the module/pack level through the pressure sensor array is also essential for designing the optimal mechanical structure and achieving superior electrochemical performance (Figure ).

Figure 7

Schematic illustration of local stress distribution measurement in sulfide-based ASSBs. Reproduced with permission. Copyright 2021, The Electrochemical Society. Reproduced with permission. Copyright 2022, Elsevier. Reproduced with permission. Copyright 2020, The Electrochemical Society. Reproduced with permission. Copyright 2022, Elsevier.

Implanted inside the cell, the optical FBG sensors can provide local stress distribution within the electrodes and between cell components. Local stress spatial resolution can be achieved through quasi-distributed and fully distributed FBG sensor designs. The design of the quasi-distributed FBG sensor includes multiplexing of multiple FBG sensor groups (Figure ) and integrating more than one grating with different Bragg wavelength (λB) in a single fiber by tuning the Bragg grating period (Λ) (Figure ). Fully distributed FBG sensors based on Rayleigh, anti-Stokes Raman, or Brillouin scattering can realize stress/temperature distribution mapping in a single FBG sensor (Figure ). Recently, Huang et al. successfully obtained temperature distribution mapping with a high spatial resolution of µm by a fully distributed FBG sensor based on Rayleigh scattering in a sodium-ion battery. Although there have been no reports on stress distribution mapping in batteries by fully distributed FBG sensors, we believe that it is promising to achieve high-resolution stress mapping by rationally designing experimental conditions to eliminate the effects of temperature (T) and strain (ε) on λBshift.

For local stress information measurements of sulfide-based ASSBs, the above schemes, which have been applied in liquid batteries, can provide some guidance and implications. Transplanting external pressure sensor arrays from liquid to solid-state batteries may not be so difficult. However, for built-in FBG sensors, many new challenges, such as minimizing the impact of FBG sensor implantation on the performance of solid-state batteries and investigating chemical stability between FBG sensors and sulfide SSEs, remain to be addressed.
 * 3) The complexity of internal stress sources should be considered and analyzed more carefully. Taking layered oxide materials as an example, NCM materials in liquid batteries can cause gas evolution, which originates from electrolyte/surface impurity decomposition and the release of lattice oxygen at high voltage, mainly composed of CO2and/or O2. Interestingly, recent studies have shown that gas evolution due to side reactions can also be observed in sulfide-based ASSBs. Strauss et al. investigated the gas evolution of NCM622 and solid electrolyte (β-Li3PS4or Li6PS5Cl) by isotopic labeling and differential electrochemical mass spectrometry. Results showed that CO2and O2could be detected during the cycling process. Both species originate from the electrochemical decomposition of Li2CO3surface contaminants, and O2originates from oxygen evolution from the NCM lattice at high SOC. This irreversible structural change of the active material is also one of the sources of irreversible stress in the battery. Janek et al. first proposed the concept of “stress balance” in a composite cathode for sulfide-based all-solid-state battery.  They proposed to use NCM/LCO two active materials mixed in a 55:45 mass ratio in the composite cathode. Due to the fact that the volume changes of NCM and LCO during the charging and discharging process are opposite, the stress generated in the composite cathode will cancel each other out (Figure ). However, considering that the internal stress changes in the battery are derived from the stress coupling caused by the cathode and anode, it is not enough to optimize the stress balance of one electrode only. One possible approach is to make sulfide-based ASSBs work in a designed stress-compensating device. By externally keeping the pressure constant, the electrochemo-mechanical issues will be alleviated.

In conclusion, although the stress (pressure)-measuring technique is a powerful tool for detecting internal stress changes directly, in order to correlate the relationship between the electrochemical reactions and internal stress evolutions in the batteries, a combination of several characterization tools is still needed to understand and resolve these complex electrochemo-mechanical issues in sulfide-based ASSBs. For example, combining pressure-probe with in-situ X-ray diffraction (XRD), X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS), or solid-state NMR can obtain information on stress changes and local structural/valence changes of active materials, and imaging methods such as SEM or CT can more intuitively observe the relationship between stress change and battery level structure change. In addition, computational mechanical models of the solid-state batteries constructed by phase-field methods will be helpful in analyzing experimental data on the stresses and predicting more complex electrochemo-mechanical phenomena during the charging/discharging processes of the batteries.

Conflict of Interest
--------------------

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

