

1 Introduction
--------------

Lithium-ion batteries have had a profound impact on the development of electronics that influence all aspects of daily life. The combination of good specific (≈250 Wh kg−1) and volumetric (≈570 Wh L−1) energy densities and adequate cycle life has not only enabled the creation of portable electronics, but has also led to their overwhelming market share of energy storage devices. The next frontier for lithium-ion batteries is the electrification of lightweight vehicles and projections estimate ≈2.5 million electric vehicles (EVs) in the United States by 2020. Although the adoption rates of EVs are predicted to increase from both the higher price of oil and increasing economies of scale which enable EVs to become cost-competitive with traditional gasoline-powered vehicles, the relatively high weight, large size, and travel range limitations of lithium-ion batteries require serious consideration. In response, the U.S. Department of Energy has targeted goals of doubling the specific and volumetric energy densities of lithium-ion batteries while reducing the price of an EV battery to a quarter of its cost by 2022. In order to meet these goals, significant advances in lithium-ion battery technology are required to overcome the current barriers.

Traditional lithium-ion batteries consist of a low- and high-voltage electrode (anode and cathode), a separator, and liquid electrolyte. Upon charging, lithium-ions deintercalate from the cathode (typically a lithium-containing oxide, e.g., lithium cobalt oxide, LiCoO2), diffuse through the liquid electrolyte (mixtures of cyclic and linear carbonates mixed with lithium-containing salts, e.g., LiClO4or LiPF6), and intercalate into the anode (typically graphite). Upon discharging, the reverse process occurs and the flow of lithium-ions is accompanied by a flow of electrons through an external circuit, enabling work. The electrodes determine the energy density of the cell and the majority of lithium-ion battery research has focused on the development of high-capacity and/or high-voltage materials. The use of lithium metal (3860 mAh g−1) in place of graphite (LiC6, 372 mAh g−1) in particular can drastically increase the energy density of lithium-ion batteries in the pursuit of EV battery targets. However, the use of traditional liquid electrolytes limits the implementation of lithium metal anodes because they are unable to prevent the formation of lithium dendrites that form during electrochemical cycling and have low coulombic efficiency due to the continual formation of a solid-electrolyte interphase.

The use of solid electrolytes offers several advantages over traditional liquid electrolytes. First, solid electrolytes with sufficient stiffness can suppress the growth of lithium metal dendrites during cycling. Second, the careful selection of the solid electrolyte composition allows for the tailoring of the electrochemical stability of the electrolyte for given electrodes (e.g., pairing a solid electrolyte with >5 V electrochemical stability window versus Li and high-voltage cathode LiMn1.5Ni0.5O4).,  Third, the use of solid electrolytes that enable the use of lithium metal anodes can result in greater energy densities compared to traditional graphite-based lithium-ion cells. The “break-even” thickness for a given solid electrolyte, assuming a standard cathode (e.g., LiCoO2) mass loading of 17 mg cm−2 and a 20% excess of capacity for the lithium metal anode, is ≈100 µm. The break-even point for specific energy density can also be calculated but is dependent on the density of the solid electrolyte, liquid electrolyte, and polymeric separator. The weight and size reductions of full-cell packaging due to the elimination of a liquid may also lead to advantages in cell-level performance. Additionally, the catastrophic failure of traditional lithium-ion batteries due to flammable liquid electrolytes is well-documented, and their replacement with nonflammable, solid electrolytes can improve the safety of these devices.

Despite many potential benefits of solid electrolytes, significant problems still need to be addressed before commercialization. In general, solid electrolytes demonstrate significantly lower room-temperature ionic conductivities when compared to liquid electrolytes. For example, lithium phosphorous oxynitride (LiPON) is a commonly used solid electrolyte in thin-film batteries and has a room temperature ionic conductivity of ≈10−6 S cm−1.,  When compared to LiPF6in EC-PC (10−2 S cm−1), it is apparent that low rate capability and the presence of concentration gradients remain issues even for thin solid electrolytes., ,  Current oxide-based electrolytes (LiPON, garnets, LISICON, LTAP, etc.) have been well-researched for several decades, but have plateaued at an ionic conductivity of 10−3–10−4 S cm−1, as in lithium lanthanum titanium oxide (LLTO). To this end, sulfide-based electrolytes have been explored as an alternative to oxides as early as the 1980s as the more polarizable nature of the sulfur anion allows for more facile lithium-ion conduction and higher ionic conductivities.

In recent years, the realization of sulfide electrolytes with unprecedented ionic conductivities, equal to or greater than most liquid electrolytes, has intensified sulfide research. In 2011, Li10GeP2S12(LGPS) was demonstrated to have an ionic conductivity of 1.2 × 10−2 S cm−1. In 2016, Li9.54Si1.74P1.44S11.7Cl0.3surpassed this mark with an ionic conductivity of 2.5 × 10−2 S cm−1 and incorporation of the sulfide in an all solid-state battery. Systems ranging from glasses, glass-ceramics, to crystalline conductors have been investigated as well and present an exciting new area of literature on solid electrolytes. Other notable characteristics of sulfide materials are low electronic conductivities (≈nS cm−1) and high lithium transference numbers (≈1).- Sulfides are compared to other solid electrolytes in Figure , demonstrating the potential of these materials in solid-state energy storage.,  This review will focus on various sulfide-based electrolytes (with an emphasis on LGPS and related structures), their conduction mechanisms, and provide an overview of materials properties (thermal, mechanical, and electrochemical) relevant to solid-state battery applications.

Figure 1

Arrhenius-type plot of ionic conductivity for a) state-of-the art solid electrolytes as well as common liquid and gel electrolytes and b) the LGPS family and Li9.54Si1.74P1.44S11.7Cl0.3. The high ionic conductivities of sulfide solid electrolytes demonstrate their promise in solid-state batteries. Reproduced with permission.,  Copyright 2016 and 2011, Springer Nature.

2 Sulfide Glass and Glass–Ceramic Electrolytes
----------------------------------------------

### 2.1 Sulfide Glasses

Sulfide glasses were among the first materials investigated as lithium-ion conductors for a variety of reasons. First, the conduction pathways are isotropic due to the absence of crystallographic passageways in the material. Second, the absence of crystallinity and grains in the material effectively eliminates grain boundary resistance which, in general, leads to glasses having higher ionic conductivities by one to two orders of magnitude compared to the crystalline phases of the same composition.,  Ionic conduction in sulfide glasses has been identified as a thermally activated process as the ionic conductivities for a wide variety of compositions show an Arrhenius relationship with temperature., - Analysis of electrochemical impedance spectroscopy and 7Li NMR has further confirmed that ionic conduction occurs through a hopping mechanism between randomly distributed Li sites. The use of a wide range of glass formers also makes sulfide glasses attractive for the nearly infinite number of possible chemistries. Most systems contain Li2S in addition to typical sulfide-based network formers and modifiers such as B2S3, P2S5, SiS2, and GeS2.

The addition of a lithium halide salt (e.g., LiI or LiCl) or lithiumortho-oxosalt (e.g., Li4SiO4or Li3PO4) can increase the lithium concentration and therefore the ionic conductivities of the glasses., - For instance, the Li2S–B2S3–LiI system has an ionic conductivity of 1.7 × 10−3 S cm−1, an order of magnitude increase from the Li2S–B2S3system. The use of lithium halides in particular does decrease the electrochemical window of the sulfide glasses due to the decomposition of the halide, but this can be avoided through the addition of lithium silicate and phosphate.

Both oxides and sulfides have desirable properties for solid electrolytes. Several oxide solid electrolytes (e.g., LLTO) are more air stable and have wider voltage windows than sulfides which tend to have higher ionic conductivities as well as easier processing.,  Oxysulfides have been explored as an attractive compromise between these families of materials. The (100 −x)(0.6Li2S–0.4SiS2)–xLixMOy(LixMOy= Li4SiO4, Li3PO4, Li4GeO4, Li3BO3, Li3AlO3, Li3GaO3and Li3InO3) system demonstrates a maximum ionic conductivity of 10−3 S cm−1 at 5mol% LixMOy. This is attributed to the “mixed-anion effect” where the conductivity of the ion mixture does not change monotonically but reaches a maximum in some property between the two end states at an ideal material composition. Oxide glasses tend to have low ionic conductivities due to nonbridging oxygen atoms that act as strong ion traps in the structure. It is suspected that the addition of small amounts of oxygen first act as bridging oxygen and increase the conductivity. Above 5 mol%, nonbridging oxygen atoms become more prevalent and begin to decrease the conductivity, resulting in this maximum. Figure demonstrates the mixed-anion effect of the (100 −x)(0.6Li2S–0.4SiS2)–xLixMOyoxysulfide system. This finding is particularly attractive as the high ionic conductivity of the sulfide glass is preserved while increasing the potential atmospheric and electrochemical stabilities through addition of the oxide.

Figure 2

The room-temperature ionic conductivity as a function of mol% LixMOyin (100 −x)(0.6Li2S–0.4SiS2)–xLixMOy.The maximum ionic conductivity is observed at 5 mol% LixMOy. Reproduced with permission. Copyright 2006, Elsevier.

Compared to oxides, sulfide glasses are easier to fabricate and incorporate in a solid-state battery. Wide ranges of composition, the ability to easily control thickness, and the possibility of scaling are all attractive features in the commercial production of sulfide glasses. Because of the lower melting point of sulfides compared to oxides, high temperatures are not required for processing and cold pressing is often sufficient to create good particle-to-particle contact. Two main methods are utilized to synthesize glassy sulfides for lithium-ion conduction. Melt quenching (water or liquid nitrogen cooled) has traditionally been coupled with a twin roller apparatus to rapidly cool the molten glass and allow for the formation of films with high concentrations of lithium.,  Figure shows the lithium concentration dependence on the room temperature conductivity for some glassy sulfides and oxides. More recently, the mechanical milling of precursor materials has demonstrated the ability to create high conductivity glasses.- This method is generally preferred over quenching methods as significantly less heat is required and is cost-effective for scaling purposes. Ultimately, solution-processed sulfide electrolytes would be ideal for scaling into quantities relevant for industrial levels. Table lists the room temperature conductivities of different sulfide glass systems.

Figure 3

Dependence of room-temperature ionic conductivity on lithium concentration for sulfide glass and glass-ceramic solid electrolytes. Reproduced with permission. Copyright 2012, Elsevier.

Table 1.
 Comparison of the room-temperature ionic conductivities of sulfide glass solid electrolytes

| Glass electrolyte | Ionic Conductivity | Reference |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 0.6Li2S–0.4SiS2 | (1–5) × 10−4 | , |
| 0.7Li2S–0.3 P2S5 | 5 × 10−5 |  |
| 0.75Li2S–0.25P2S5 | 3 × 10−4 |  |
| 0.3LiCl–0.35Li2S–0.35SiS2 | 2 × 10−4 |  |
| 0.4LiI–0.24GeS2–0.06Ga2S3–0.3Li2S | 9 × 10−4 |  |
| 0.05Li4SiO4–0.57Li2S–0.38SiS2 | 2 × 10−3 |  |
| 0.01Li3PO4–0.63Li2S–0.36SiS2 | 2 × 10−4 |  |

### 2.2 Sulfide Glass-Ceramics

Although the complete crystallization of sulfide glasses generally results in a lower conductivity, the partial crystallization of certain glass compositions can lead to significantly higher values through the formation of a glass-ceramic. Glass-ceramics are generally comprised of crystalline and amorphous constituents which are created through the crystallization of the parent glass via heat treatment.- Single-step ball milling (SSBM) is also used to form glass-ceramics and can be performed at room temperature using a high-energy planetary ball mill where the heat generated from collisions with milling media is sufficient to locally melt and recrystallize the material.,  More recently, solution phase synthesis has been used to make glass ceramics and crystalline sulfide electrolytes.-

The crystalline fraction of glass-ceramics varies from mostly glass to mostly crystalline and properties of these materials as electrolytes vary accordingly. Literature comparisons are difficult to make here if the percent crystallinity and identification of the crystalline phase are not reported. In general, sulfide glass-ceramics exhibit high ionic conductivities due to the precipitation of superionic phases within the glass with conduction pathways between these precipitates maintained through connecting amorphous regions. These superionic phases are generally metastable and cannot be directly synthesized. Most of the work on glass-ceramic sulfide electrolytes has been carried out with Li2S–P2S5compositions. In this system, crystallization ofxLi2S–(100 −x)P2S5(mol%) can precipitate various phases depending on the value ofx. Forx< 70 mol% Li2S, the low ionic conductivity Li4P2S6or Li3PS4phases are created which decrease the total conductivity of the glass-ceramic. Forxgreater ≥70 mol% Li2S, both Li7P3S11and Li3.25P0.95S4are precipitated and significantly increase the conductivity by two orders of magnitude above the parent glass (10−3 compared to 10−5 S cm−1).- Sulfide glass-ceramics also demonstrate low electronic conductivities, on the order of nS cm−1, as measured by DC polarization techniques.,  The experimentally measured low electronic conductivities are supported by first-principles calculations of the wide band gap of the Li7P3S11glass-ceramic system (3.5–3.9 eV).,  Due to the presence of crystalline regions, grain boundary resistances must be acknowledged and reduced in order to improve the ionic conductivities of sulfide glass-ceramics. Figure shows the difference in ionic conductivities for the crystalline (solid-state reaction), glass, and glass-ceramic materials in the 70Li2S–30P2S5system with LiPON shown as a reference.

Figure 4

Comparison of the crystalline, glass, and glass-ceramic forms of the 70Li2S–30P2S5solid electrolyte with LiPON included as a reference. Reproduced with permission. Copyright 2005, Wiley-VCH.

3 Sulfide Crystalline Electrolytes
----------------------------------

### 3.1 Thio-LISICON

Crystalline materials that possess well-defined conduction pathways for lithium-ion transport are expected to have superior conductivities compared to their amorphous counterparts. For instance, Li14Zn(GeO4)4(LIthium SuperIonic CONductor-, LISICON) is comprised of LiO4, ZnO4, GeO4, and LiO6tetrahedra arranged in the γ-Li3PO4structure with conduction pathways in thec-direction (Figure a). However, the high ionic conductivities expected of the crystalline material are only observed at elevated temperatures (LISICON ≈10−1 S cm−1, amorphous LISICON ≈10−2 S cm−1 at 300 °C), and room temperature conductivities are several orders of magnitude lower (LISICON ≈10−7 S cm−1, amorphous LISICON ≈10−4 S cm−1 at 25°C).,  The poor room-temperature ionic conductivity in LISICON has limited its use to high-temperature applications. Significant research efforts have been made in synthesizing sulfide counterparts to LISICON. Several sulfur-based compounds exist in the γ-Li3PO4structure (thio-LISICONs) including parent phases Li4GeS4and Li3PS4.,  Figures b shows the crystal structure for Li4GeS4as a basis for other thio-LISICON structures. The material consists of hexagonally close-packed sulfide anions with Ge or P in tetrahedral sites. Lithium occupies both octahedral and tetrahedral sites creating edge-sharing LiS6octahedra chains in theb-axis. These tetrahedral sites serve as 1D conduction pathways for lithium-ion as in LISICON.

Figure 5

a) Structure of LISICON and b) thio-LISICON member Li4GeS4. Reproduced with permission.,  Copyright 2002, Elsevier.

The thio-LISICON parent phases have conductivities ≈10−7 S cm−1 at room-temperature as the lack of lithium disorder in the lattice prevents significant ionic conduction. Solid solutions of Li4GeS4and Li3PS4have been thoroughly investigated for compositions yielding higher ionic conductivities. The substitution of Ge4+ + Li+ ↔ P5+ introduces lithium vacancies into the crystal structure which increases lithium-ion conduction significantly. Aliovalent cation substitutions also lead to increased ionic conductivities in LISICON through the same mechanism. The maximum conductivity of the thio-LISICON family is greater than 10−3 S cm−1 atx= 0.75 in Li4−xM1−xM′xS4where M = Si, Ge or Zr and M′ = P, Al, Zn or Ga., - A variety of thio-LISICON materials, their conductivities, and their conduction mechanisms are shown in Figure . Depending on the valence of the cations and the excess or deficiency of Li from the parent thio-LISICON phase, ionic conduction may occur through either a Li interstitial or vacancy mechanism, respectively. The LISICON counterparts are also shown, and the thio-LISICON materials demonstrate notably higher ionic conductivities.

Figure 6

LISICON and thio-LISCION family map with listed lithium-ion conduction mechanisms and ionic conductivity values. Reproduced with permission. Copyright 2001, Electrochemical Society, Inc.

### 3.2 Li10GeP2S12(LGPS)

Li10GeP2S12(LGPS) was the first solid electrolyte reported to have an ionic conductivity greater than that of some liquid electrolytes at room temperature. The material exhibits a room temperature conductivity of 12 mS cm−1 with an activation energy of 0.25 eV from 163 to 383 K. The tetragonal unit cell of LGPS consists of (Ge0.5P0.5)S4(50% Ge, 50% P occupancy), PS4, and LiS4tetrahedra and LiS6octahedra (Figure ). (Ge0.5P0.5)S4tetrahedra and LiS6octahedra share a common edge and form 1D chains along thec-direction. These chains are connected to one another by PS4tetrahedra through a common corner shared with LiS6octahedra, forming a 3D framework. LiS4tetrahedra form chains along thec-direction within this scaffold and lithium conduction occurs primarily in 1D channels formed by lithium in 16h and 8f tetrahedral sites. It is worth noting that the proposed structure is based only on the nominal composition of LGPS and the disordered distribution of GeS4and PS4tetrahedra can lead to the coexistence of different local microstructures. The presence of microstructural fluctuations is expected to have a small effect on the electrochemical properties of the material.

Figure 7

a) 3D structure of LGPS consisting of (Ge0.5P0.5)S4tetrahedra and LiS6octahedra chains connected to by PS4tetrahedra and b) coordination of the LiS6octahedra in LGPS. Reproduced with permission. Copyright 2015, Royal Society of Chemistry.

A significant contribution to the ionic conductivity of LGPS originates from weak conduction pathways formed by corner-sharing LiS4tetrahedra in theabplane. Molecular dynamics studies have elucidated the nature of this anisotropy and activation energies for conduction of 0.17 eV and 0.19 eV (corresponding to ≈40 mS cm−1) in thec-direction and 0.28 eV and 0.30 eV in theabplane have been calculated. Solid-state NMR has substantiated these calculations with 0.16 and 0.26 eV measured in thecdirection andabplane, respectively. The overall activation energy for ionic conduction in LGPS (0.25 eV) is observed to be a weighted average of the anisotropic values, indicating that the contribution from theabplane is essential for the high ionic conductivity observed in LGPS. 1D ionic conductors typically do not demonstrate high ionic conductivity due to thermodynamically favorable structural defects that easily block transport. Conversely, high symmetry structures with a 3D network of ionic pathways and concomitant high density of vacancies would lead to structural instability of the material. The existence of lithium conduction pathways perpendicular to the 1D channels in LGPS combines the features of 1D and 3D ionic conductors and ensures that conductivity is robust with respect to the high concentration of defects.

The position and occupancy of lithium sites along conduction pathways determine the governing ion transport mechanism in LGPS. Three unique lithium sites (Li1, Li2, and Li3) were initially identified in the LGPS structure (Figure ). Conduction in the 1D channels requires a Li3––Li3 mechanism (where denotes the two possible disordered sites). However, single ion migration is unlikely due to the partial occupancies of Li1 and Li3 that effectively block long-range diffusion. In the event of a double occupancy of Li1 sites, displacement of a neighboring Li3 is an additional difficulty given the energy required to overcome both Coulombic repulsion and jump distance. A cooperative ion migration mechanism has been proposed where Li1 and Li3 replace one another in a synchronized fashion., , ,  One-particle potentials for the activation energies associated with this conduction mechanism are 0.04 and 0.11 eV corresponding to disorder and Li1–Li3 diffusion, respectively. The sum of these activation energies is in good agreement with calculated and measured values for conduction in thec-direction. In theabplane, bond valence calculations and molecular dynamics simulations predicted a fourth lithium site connecting 1D lithium channels and its existence was experimentally confirmed via single-crystal X-ray diffraction and neutron powder diffraction (Table ). This lithium site, Li4, enhances the stability of LGPS by reducing the electrostatic repulsive interactions of the 1D chains. The nearly equivalent energy and positioning of Li4 and Li1 may also help to resolve any transient double occupancies via a Li1– –Li1 mechanism. This mechanism is also identified as the main conduction pathway in theabplane. Li2––Li2 is not considered to be active for diffusion due to the octahedral coordination (resulting in an absence of lithium disorder) and relatively high energy state of a Li2 site., 

Figure 8

Lithium framework of LGPS as determined from neutron powder diffraction. Refined atomic split sites for Li3 and Li4 are not shown. Black lines denote the tetragonal lattice. Reproduced with permission. Copyright 2016, American Chemical Society.

Table 2.
 Refined structural parameters for LGPS at room temperature obtained via Rietveld refinements of neutron powder diffraction. Adapted with permission. Copyright 2016, American Chemical Society

| Atom | Wyckoff site | Lithium disorder | Occupation parameter |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Li1 | 16h | 0.25 | 0.50 |
| Li2 | 8g | – | 0.54 |
| Li3 | 8f | 0.10 | 0.62 |
| Li4 | 4c | 0.05 | 0.68 |

At elevated temperatures, LGPS undergoes a change in the lithium distribution of the lattice and conduction mechanism. At 373 K, LGPS experiences a diffuse phase transition exhibited by a decrease in the activation energy for ionic conduction from 0.25 to 0.12 eV. This transformation is observed in other superionic conducting solids and is attributed to the formation of a disordered lithium distribution, but it is not yet clearly understood.- The occupancies of the active lithium sites and their distances from each other along the conduction pathways in LGPS have been determined by neutron diffraction and are shown in Figure as a function of temperature. Li1 and Li4 site occupancies increase at the expense of Li3 sites with increasing temperature, indicating an increase in lithium disorder. This is especially apparent for Li1 sites where the increase in occupancy is accompanied by a decrease in Li1–Li1 distance. The increased Li1 disorder and Li1–Li3 distance and reduced Li3 occupancy implies that ionic conduction is relatively more difficult in the 1D channels of LGPS at elevated temperatures than it is at room-temperature. Meanwhile, the increase in the occupancy of Li4 sites and decrease in the Li1–Li4 distance with increasing temperature suggests increased ionic conduction from theabplane. The enhanced contribution of 2D conduction at elevated temperatures can lead to higher ionic conductivities and lower activation energies in LGPS due to the greater ease in obtaining long-range diffusion in typically polycrystalline samples.

Figure 9

a) The occupation parameter,g, at each Li site and b) the lithium site distances in near-stoichiometric LGPS (Li10.05Ge1.05P1.95S12) determined by neutron diffraction as a function of temperature over the ranges of 10–750 K. Reproduced with permission. Copyright 2015, Royal Society of Chemistry.

Solid solutions of LGPS can be synthesized through cation substitution and demonstrate increased ionic conductivities. The solid solution Li10+δGe1+δP2−δS12is stable from 0 ≤ δ ≤ 0.50 and demonstrates a maximum ionic conductivity at room temperature of 14.2 mS cm−1 at δ = 0.35 (compared to 12 mS cm−1 for LGPS).,  The substitution of Ge4+ for P5+ results in an increase in lithium in the structure with greater occupancy of Li1 and Li3 sites in the 1D channels observed with increasing values of δ from 0 ≤δ ≤ 0.35. The activation energy for ionic conduction for δ = 0.35 is 0.27 eV and matches closely to LGPS, indicating that the increase in ionic conductivity is not accompanied with a change in conduction mechanism. The relatively small increases in ionic conductivity through solid solution substitution compared to thio-LISICON indicates that LGPS inherently possesses sufficient lithium disorder for high ionic conductivity.

In general, aliovalent cation substitutions (e.g., P5+ or Al3+ for Ge4+to form Li9P3S12or Li11AlP2S12) have a larger effect on ionic conductivity than isovalent substitutions. Li9P3S12(LPS) and Li11AlP2S12(LAlPS) are calculated to have ionic conductivities of 4 and 33 mS cm−1 from ab initio molecular dynamics simulations, respectively. The differences in ionic conductivity in LPS, LGPS, and LAlPS are due to an increased lithium content in the unit cells and, to a lesser extent, the widening of the 1D channels. The threefold increase in ionic conductivity anticipated for LAlPS over LGPS make it an attractive candidate as a solid electrolyte. However, the tetragonal LGPS structure has proven difficult to obtain for these compounds and conventional solid-state synthesis methods have yielded only the high-temperature thio-LISICON (β-Li3PS4) phase.- The partial substitution of oxygen for sulfur has been shown to increase the thermodynamic stability of LGPS by providing stronger chemical bonding, and oxygen substitution has recently been used to stabilize the LGPS-phase of LPS. This synthesis route may also be extended to the LAlPS system. Isovalent cation substitutions (e.g., Sn4+ or Si4+ for Ge4+ to form Li10SiP2S12or Li10SnP2S12) are expected to have a smaller effect on the ionic conductivity in the LGPS structure. However, the use of a less expensive, more earth-abundant metal in place of Ge can reduce the raw materials cost of the solid electrolyte by two-thirds and make these materials attractive from an economic standpoint. Li10SnP2S12(LSnPS) has an ionic conductivity of 7 mS cm−1, which is in good agreement with the 6 mS cm−1 conductivity predicted from molecular dynamics simulations. Li10SiP2S12is expected to have a higher ionic conductivity (23 mS cm−1) due to a decrease in the unit cell volume, and the reduction in the energy difference between Li sites should also facilitate ion diffusion. The relatively small ionic radius of Si4+, however, leads to destabilization of the structure due to a large size discrepancy between PS4and SiS4tetrahedra. An increase in the Si/P ratio can alleviate this instability by reducing the number of PS4tetrahedra, and Li11Si2PS12(LSiPS) has been synthesized in the LGPS structure with only ≈10% P in the mixed cation tetrahedral. However, the high ionic conductivity of phase-pure LSiPS has not yet been experimentally verified due to the instability of the material at sintering temperatures (leading to a heterogeneous material with the thio-LISION phase).,  The LGPS phase can be stabilized through dual substitution of Sn4+ and Si4+ for Ge4+ as in the Li10+δP2−δS12system. The addition of Sn4+ increases the average ionic radii in the material (Sn4+ = 0.55 Å, Si4+ = 0.26 Å) and results in a maximum ionic conductivity approaching that of LGPS (Li10+δ1+δP2−δS12, δ = 0.35; 11 mS cm−1). Measurements of the electronic conductivity of LGPS and aliovalent cation-substituted analogues typically show low electronic conductivities of ≈5 nS cm−1., 

Anion substitutions have a more significant impact on lithium conduction than cation replacement in the LGPS structure. In general, the lithium-ion conductivity of a material is highly dependent on the anion. Larger anions result in wider lithium-ion channels and more polarizable anions ease the dissociation of lithium from the anion sublattice. The oxide-based LGPS analogue has a significantly lower lithium-ion conductivity (0.03 vs 13 mS cm−1) and higher activation energy (0.36 vs 0.21 eV) than LGPS according to molecular dynamics simulations. Analysis of the simulated structure also confirms the presence of significantly reduced ion channel sizes in the material. While it may be expected that the selenium-based LGPS analogue will have better conduction properties, lithium-ion diffusion does not significantly improve (24 mS cm−1, 0.19 eV) even though an increase in channel size is observed. This result suggests that there is a critical ion channel size for lithium-ion diffusion beyond which conduction does not improve significantly as lithium must still be coordinated to the LGPS structure. These findings are corroborated by an investigation of the effect of lattice parameter changes on conduction in the LGPS structure. Simulations on isotropically scaled LGPS demonstrate that 1%, 2%, and 4% decreases in the lattice parameters have a significant effect on the activation energy (increasing to 0.28, 0.47, and 0.59 eV). Conversely, a 4% increase in the lattice parameter only reduces the activation energy from 0.23 to 0.17 eV. This suggests that the lithium-ion channels in LGPS are at a somewhat optimal size and further increases in lattice parameters (either artificially induced or through the substitution of a larger anion) will have a small effect on Li+ diffusivity.

4 Superionic Conductivity
-------------------------

The basis for the high ionic (superionic) conductivity observed in select crystalline materials is largely determined by the arrangement of anions within their respective structures. The crystal structures of ionic conductors consist of polyhedra connected by ligands (chalcogens, halogens, or nitrogen) in various possible coordination. A variety of metal and nonmetal ions have been used to build these frameworks. Figure highlights the different framework cations and anions that have been used to create solid-state ion conductors for a variety of mobile ions.

Figure 10

Periodic table identifying mobile ions (blue) and the assorted cations (purple) and anions (yellow) that have been used to build frameworks for solid-state ionic conductors. Adapted with permission. Copyright 2016, American Chemical Society.

The diffusion of an ion through a crystal structure follows the pathway with the smallest energy barrier for conduction. This pathway is determined by both the mobile ion coordination to the anion and the crystal structure of the ionic conductor.,  Lithium-ions are often found in four- or six-coordination and thus are most stable in tetrahedral or octahedral sites within a framework. In calculations assuming the coordination of lithium with sulfur, the activation energy for diffusion between possible combinations of these sites is lowest for face-sharing tetrahedra. bcc lattices are comprised solely of face-sharing tetrahedra that percolate throughout the unit cell, which leads to the smallest possible energy for conduction (compared to sulfur fcc and hcp lattices). LGPS and β-Li3PS4can both be mapped to sulfur bcc sublattices, suggesting that this is, in part, a requirement for superionic conductivity. Other materials that have hcp or fcc sublattices (such as γ-Li3PS4and Li4GeS4) can be mapped to a bcc framework if relatively large structural deviations are allowed and this may help to explain the lower conductivities observed in these materials. Superionic conductivity in a percolating network of tetrahedral sites can be accommodated in non-bcc sublattices, although less frequently than with bcc sublattices. Sulfide argyrodite-type materials (including Li7PS6, argyrodite-type Li6PS5X (X = Cl, Br, I), and Li7Ge3PS12) and sodium conductor cubic-Na3PS4are among the non-bcc superionic conductors., - In general, superionic conductivity is thought to be limited to a small group of sulfide compounds because bcc or bcc-like frameworks are less common than hcp or fcc anion sublattices. The above principle is applicable to other combinations of mobile cations and immobile anion sublattices. For instance, antiperovskites (e.g., Li3OCl and Li3OBr), conducting halides, and conducting chalcogenides all have bcc anion sublattices.

Compositional tuning is a useful technique for increasing the ionic conductivity of superionic conductors. From a fundamental perspective, the ionic conductivity of a material is dependent on the number and occupancy of mobile lithium sites, and these parameters can be modified through aliovalent cation substitution. The substitution of Ge4+ + Li+ ↔ P5+ is particularly important in maximizing the ionic conductivities in the LGPS and thio-LISICON families. Cation substitution can also modify the activation energy for diffusion required by the anion sublattice. The increase in the number of mobile ions through compositional changes (Si4+ for Ge4+) can result in the filling of tetrahedral sites in the lattice and drive lithium-ions into higher energy octahedral sites. This can eliminate the large energy difference between the tetrahedral and octahedral sites and lower the activation energy for conduction. Sites with partial occupancies of different cations (e.g., Ge and P in LGPS) also create additional barriers to ion conduction. Cation substitution for more chemically similar cations can reduce these energetic barriers. For example, substituting Si for Ge (closer to P in the periodic table) lowers the activation energy for conduction while substituting Sn for Ge (further from P) increases it. Given a percolating network of tetrahedral sites for lithium-ion diffusion, general intuition would lead one to expect that the ionic conductivity of a material increases with greater concentrations of mobile lithium ions up to the solid solution limit of the system. However, the ionic conductivities of superionic conductors often pass through a maximum and decrease as more mobile ions are added into the lattice. At such high concentrations of mobile ions, the mobility of lithium is concentration dependent and this decrease has been attributed to local structural distortions induced by the substitutions that increase the activation energy for conduction. These phenomena are difficult to predict and have led to a trial-and-error approach to compositional tuning that, while inefficient, has been successful in enhancing the ionic conductivities of superionic conductors.

Computational methods including bond valence (BV),, - molecular dynamics (MD),, ,  and density functional theory (DFT),  have been used to achieve a greater understanding and guide a more rational design of high ion conductivity materials. A common theme that emerges from these studies is the need to maintain the percolating network required for lithium diffusion. In particular, the compositional tuning of superionic conductors through anion substitution is counterintuitive from a general structural and chemical perspective but can result in increases in ionic conductivity that are otherwise unobtainable. In the Li6PS5X (X = Cl, Br, I) system ion transport is solely determined by the arrangement of PS43− anions. Larger halides should lead to a more open structure and the greater polarizability of these anions should allow for enhanced lithium-ion diffusion. However, the iodide anions in Li6PS5I are found to effectively impede the percolation of local pathways on a larger scale and reduce the ionic conductivity of the material (Li6PS5Cl/Li6PS5Br ≈10−4 S cm−1, Li6PS5I ≈10−7 S cm−1). Similar results were found in the antiperovskite superionic conductor Li3OCl1−xBrxwhere low concentrations of Br result in more conductive pathways in the structure, while excessive concentrations effectively block these channels and reduce the degree of percolation and ionic conductivity. From a thermodynamic perspective, the composition that optimizes ionic conductivity should also optimize the configurational entropy of lithium. For example, the entropy of lithium is already maximized in β-Li3PS4and compositional tuning is not expected to increase its ionic conductivity. In these instances in which composition tuning is already optimized, additional entropic terms may be manipulated to increase the ionic conductivity of the material. MD simulations suggest that lithium diffusion is correlated with the motion of anion tetrahedra in superionic conductors (including PS43− in β-Li3PS4,  and LGPS,) and this agrees with the expectation that reducing the vibrational entropy of the system reduces the diffusivity of lithium-ions BV and DFT calculations have similarly shown that the anionic substitution of more electronegative oxygen for sulfur in small amounts improves the ionic conductivity in β-Li3PS4due to the wider space around the channel and easier hopping of lithium-ion around the oxygen.

Lattice dynamics have also been identified as important factors in the stability and conductivity of sulfide solid electrolytes. Crystalline sulfide solid electrolytes are not thermodynamically stable, but calculations have shown that their metastability is due to excess phonon free energy, especially for off-stoichiometric structures such as Li2Zn0.5PS4. Similar results were found for Li7P3S11 and the sodium-ion conductor, Na10GeP2S12.,  The large polarizability of the anion sublattice in sulfide solid electrolytes also results in the softening of the lattice. While this is associated with a decrease in the activation barrier for lithium-ion diffusion, the concomitant lowering phonon densities of states decreases the jump frequency and entropy of migration. These competing factors which contribute to ionic conductivity highlight the need to independently tailor the lithium and anion phonon densities of states in the design of lithium superionic conductors. Efforts focused on optimizing lattice dynamics in sulfide solid electrolytes include the synthesis of Li1+2xZn1−xPS4, halide tuning of argyrodite-type sulfide solid electrolytes, and the identification of the olivine family (e.g., LiMgPO4) as possible superionic conductors. These analyses indicate that while the compositional tuning of superionic conductors is a multifaceted problem, the fundamental principles of superionic conductivity are well understood and the rational design of sulfide solid electrolytes with even greater ionic conductivities is possible.

5 Physicochemical Stability of Sulfide Solid Electrolytes
---------------------------------------------------------

### 5.1 Mechanical Stability

The characterization of the mechanical stability of sulfide glasses and crystalline materials is critical in evaluating their viability as solid electrolytes in lithium-ion batteries. During the operation of a solid-state battery, significant mechanical stresses develop in the solid electrolyte due to 1) volume changes of the electrode materials upon lithiation/delithiation and 2) interface roughening from side reactions upon repeated cycling.,  This leads to poor interfacial contact due to the structural fragmentation of the active material and poor electrochemical performance due to local electrochemical polarization. In general, conventional oxide-based solid electrolytes, including both glasses and crystalline materials, tend to possess shear moduli large enough to prevent lithium metal dendrite growth (G> 8.4 GPa assuming good adhesion,, ) but are susceptible to degradation through fracture. Conversely, “softer” solid electrolytes such as polymer electrolytes are better able to accommodate the strain from battery operation, but are unable to prevent the growth of lithium metal dendrites. It should be noted that the shear modulus required to prevent dendrite growth is derived from a purely mechanical standpoint. Exceptions exist such as the use of nanostructured polymer electrolytes (G≈100 MPa), which have tortuous paths for dendrites and excellent surface energy matching with lithium metal electrodes that lead to stable cycling. The use of a malleable and ductile solid electrolyte with a sufficient shear modulus is also preferred in order to tolerate the morphological changes of the electrode surface and maintain good interfacial contact during battery operation.

Sulfide glasses possess lower moduli compared to sulfide glass-ceramics and crystalline materials. This difference is attributed to the lack of periodic, long-range ordering and the presence of free volume/dangling bonds. Experimental measurements of the mechanical properties of sulfide solid electrolytes have proven difficult due to the moisture sensitivity of sulfides as the sample surface can quickly change from its as-synthesized condition. The two most common methods for evaluating the mechanical properties of these electrolytes are indentation measurements in a fluid cell and acoustic measurements. The mechanical properties of Li2S–P2S5glass measured via indentation include a shear modulus of 7.1 GPa. The addition of lithium halide salts will decrease the glass modulus and reduce the number of pores and/or grain boundaries in the pressed pellet. Nanoindentation methods were also used to characterize β-Li3PS4,but low densities of the pressed pellets resulted in an unexpectedly low shear modulus ≈5-6 GPa. Extrapolated values for fully dense samples of β-Li3PS4(7.8 GPa) are slightly higher than those measured for the Li2S–P2S5glass (7.1 GPa). This discrepancy is consistent with studies that show the mechanical properties of amorphous sulfide solid electrolytes increase with both molding temperature and pressure.,  The values predicted for fully dense samples are in good agreement with what is expected from computational calculations. The shear modulus of Li10GeP2S12(4.5 GPa) obtained experimentally is smaller than what is predicted from first-principles calculations (7.9 GPa). The difference between these experimental and calculated values may be due to the nature of sample preparation. LGPS is typically polycrystalline as synthesized and this may reduce the van der Waals interactions between GeS4and PS4tetrahedra, which is expected to negatively affect the mechanical properties of LGPS in particular. Cation and anion substitution can affect the shear moduli of crystalline sulfides by changing the ionic character of bonding. Experimental evaluation of mechanical properties has not been conducted for LSiPS or LSnPS but, on the basis of computational findings, the Si- and Sn-substituted thiophosphates have slightly larger moduli due to a greater ionic character of bonding (9.2 and 11.2 GPa, respectively). Quite similarly, anionic substitution of oxygen for sulfur may lead to enhanced mechanical properties. However, the mechanical characterization of these materials has not yet been reported.

A benefit of the relatively low elastic modulus of sulfide solid electrolytes is the reduction in grain boundary resistances via cold-pressing. Unlike in traditional lithium-ion batteries where liquid electrolyte penetrates a porous electrode structure, solid state batteries require additional processing to form good interfacial contact between electrode and electrolyte. Anode and cathode active materials are typically ball-milled with conductive additive and sulfide solid electrolyte to ensure sufficient electronic and ionic conductivities in the composites prior to pressing into electrode pellets, respectively. These electrodes are then separated by a solid electrolyte pellet in a stack and pressed into a full cell (≈102 MPa) for testing. The electrochemical and mechanical properties of a full-cell with a composite LiCoO2/80Li2S–20P2S5cathode fabricated via room-temperature cold-pressing were recently reported and demonstrated a small ohmic drop at a moderate specific current (Figure ). This indicates that cold-pressing is sufficient to form a good interfacial contact between electrode and electrolyte which is crucial for viable device-level performance. Pressures above 360 MPa were able to densify 75Li2S·25P2S5to a relative density above 90% and consequently raise the ionic conductivity by nearly an order of magnitude. In comparison, conventional solid oxide electrolytes generally require high-temperature pressing or prolonged sintering to reduce their grain-boundary resistance. Room-temperature cold pressing of Li7La3Zr2O12at 360 MPa demonstrated little densification and resulted in an ionic conductivity too low to measure accurately. However, the cold pressing of sulfides can result in the formation of an intermediate layer due to interdiffusion and may induce irreversible side reactions during electrochemical testing of the solid-state battery and decrease cell performance., 

Figure 11

a) Schematic of Li2S–P2S5coated LiCoO2particles before and after cold-pressing. b) Cross-sectional SEM image of the cold-pressed Li2S–P2S5/LiCoO2composite electrode. c) Galvanostatic cycling of solid-state battery comprised of a LiCoO2positive electrode, a graphite negative electrode, and a Li2S–P2S5solid electrolyte at a current density of 11 mA g−1. Reproduced with permission. Copyright 2013, Springer Nature.

Stable lithium plating/stripping has been demonstrated with sulfide solid electrolytes at applied current densities of ≈2 mA cm−2,, ,  which are lower than what can be supported through the use of liquid electrolytes. This behavior is attributed to poor contact between the lithium metal and the sulfide electrolyte and is thought to create local regions of high current density that facilitate the formation and growth of lithium metal dendrites. The modification of cell construction and electrolyte composition have been shown to improve interfacial contact. Lithium metal evaporated directly onto 80Li2S·20P2S5demonstrated more stable lithium plating/stripping than lithium foil pressed against the same electrolyte. The addition of layers that decrease the electronic conductivity and increase the ionic conductivity of the lithium metal anode/solid electrolyte interface have also been shown to help increase the supported current densities. LiI has been shown to improve the critical current density in the LPS system from 0.88 to 2.16 mA cm−2 at 60 °C. Similarly, a surface coating of LiBH4-LiI on As-substituted Li4SnS4was shown to improve the coulombic efficiency of the lithium plating/stripping process. Decreased porosity through the introduction of a sintering step for sulfide glasses or prolonged sintering of sulfide glass-ceramics and crystalline materials may also help to reduce the effect of grain boundary resistance and, in tandem with the inherent mechanical properties of sulfides, mitigate or even prevent the growth of lithium dendrites.

Another consideration with sulfide solid electrolytes that has implications for solid-state batteries is the mechanical stability of the sulfide solid electrolyte interface with cathode and anode materials. One example, the LGPS/ LCO interface, has been shown to severely affect the cycling life of solid-state batteries. Volume changes in the cathode upon lithiation can cause particle cracking and/or shearing which results in the loss of contact between active electrode material and solid electrolyte. This results in fewer percolation pathways available for the diffusion of lithium ions, leading to lower mobilities and capacity fade as well as nonuniform current distributions and variable strains that further affect mechanical integrity. Employing composite cathodes that undergo minimal volume expansion during cycling (e.g., positive volume expansion LiCoO and negative volume expansion LiO2) provide a means of mitigating these strains. Similarly, the sulfide solid electrolyte/Li metal interface can experience large strains and nonuniform current densities from volume expansion and nonuniform Li deposition and dissolution during cycling. In a solid-state battery device design, the simultaneous volume change of the positive and negative electrodes along with compressibility of the electrodes and electrolyte must be addressed to avoid the buildup of excessive pressure in the cell. Flexible and elastic additives or nanoparticle electrodes may aid in accommodating the expansion of active materials.-

### 5.2 Air Stability

One of the main concerns with sulfide solid electrolytes is their poor chemical stability in air. Under ambient conditions, many sulfide materials undergo a hydrolysis reaction with moisture and generate H2S gas, degrading battery performance and creating safety issues if not properly contained. The discovery of promising electrochemical and mechanical properties of these materials has increased interest in the study of their air stability. The valence state of the glass additive cation is an important factor in the chemical stability of sulfide solid electrolytes as it determines the proportion of nonbridging sulfur bonds which are known to be sites of degradation and instability. Monovalent glass modifiers, such as Li2S, lead to the formation of nonbridging sulfur bonds in the glass, whereas the addition of trivalent glass intermediates, such as Ga2S3and La2S3, eliminates nonbridging bonds and stabilize the glass without significant distortion. Tetravalent glass formers GeO2and GeS2both increase glass stability through the formation of bonding oxygen and sulfur, respectively.,  In this way, sulfide glass structures can be engineered to improve their stability in air and address outgassing safety concerns.

Resistance to H2S formation can also be increased by high-temperature crystallization which reduces the ratio of nonbridging to bridging sulfur bonds. The reduced amount of Li2S in the material from the precipitation of phases which contain PS43− ions may also be a contributing factor to the increased stability. Among the thiophosphate glasses, lithiumortho-thiophosphate Li3PS4(75Li2S–25P2S5) glasses exhibit high air stabilities, primarily due to the low reactivity of PS43− ion with moisture compared to other phosphate ions. A subsequent study notes that H2S gas generation can be reduced through the partial substitution of lithium phosphosulfides with thermodynamically more stable oxides (e.g., Li2O and P2O5) due to the increased ionic character of bonding. Thus, finding a balance in oxysulfide materials may be a reasonable approach to maximizing both stability and electrochemical performance.

The stability of sulfide solid electrolytes can be further increased through the incorporation of H2S absorbing oxides. Li3PS4stability was shown to improve by combining H2S absorbing oxides Fe2O3, ZnO, Bi2O3, CuO, or MgO in a composite structure. Addition of FeS was also found to be successful in H2S suppression by acting as a catalyst in H2S degradation into elemental sulfur. Oxide substitution and/or addition substantially reduces the evolution of H2S gas, but at the expense of the electrochemical performance. Compared to the lithium thiophosphates, tin-based systems such as Li2SnS3, Li4SnS4–LiI, and As-substituted Li4SnS4 exhibit greater air stability, which can be explained by the hard and soft acid and base (HSAB) theory. Soft acids, such as Sn and As, are comparatively less reactive toward a hard base oxygen than the hard acid phosphorus. This principle has also been applied toward the improvement of the air stability of sodium-ion solid-state conductors.,  Systematic studies on the reactivity of lithium thiophosphates in air have not yet been reported but are expected to be similar to Li2S–P2S5systems. Future studies on the air stability difference between glass, glass-ceramic, and crystalline materials would be particularly useful for identifying the feasibility of these materials in a commercial setting.

### 5.3 Thermal Stability

The thermal stability of solid electrolytes, including sulfide glasses and glass-ceramics is superior to that of traditional liquid electrolytes. Based on the experimental determination of the Li4GeS4–Li3PS4phase diagram, Li4GeS4, Li10GeP2S12, and β-Li3PS4systems are stable up to at least 450 °C, which is far beyond the normal operating conditions of traditional lithium-ion batteries. A deeper understanding of the high-temperature stability of thiophosphates, however, is still under investigation. Recent structural studies of Li10GeP2S12using temperature-dependent X-ray diffraction suggests the formation of an impurity phase between 300 and 400 °C. This impurity phase is thought to be the high temperature (≈600 °C) secondary phase Li4P2S6, which can form at much lower temperatures due to the thermodynamic metastability of Li10GeP2S12. Quantitative identification of the impurity via Rietveld refinement is difficult due to peak overlap between two phases. The formation of Li4P2S6with lower ionic conductivity (2.3 × 10−6 S cm−1) leads to a substantially lower overall ionic conductivity for the Li10GeP2S12composite. Similarly, the metastable Li7P3S11crystalline glass-ceramic electrolyte also experiences precipitation of the impurity phases Li3PS4and Li4P2S6at 300 °C, resulting in a lower overall ionic conductivity value. This is due to both the presence of impurity phases and the formation of grain boundaries.

For the glass-ceramic electrolytes, the difference between the crystallization temperature,Tc, and the glass transition temperature,Tg, is an indicator of the stability of the glass against crystallization. The decrease in thermal stability of the glass-ceramic sulfides is generally ascribed to an increase of nonbridging sulfurs in sulfide glasses. As such, the thermal stability of lithium-ion conducting Li2S–GeS2–LiI glass-ceramic electrolytes is considerably enhanced by doping it with glass intermediates Ga2S3and La2S3, which help to eliminate nonbridging sulfurs and increase the glass-forming character. Similarly, the lithium ion-conducting Li2S–SiS2thiosilicate glasses show improved stability against crystallization when the glass is doped with a small amount of lithiumortho-oxosalt LixMOy(M = Si, P, Ge, B, Al, Ga, and In), increasing the total amount of bridging oxygen atoms in the structure. Similar to the crystalline sulfides, impurity phase Li3PS4is also seen in Li2S–P2S5glass electrolytes when hot pressed above 300 °C. Although many of these phase transformations are important to study for high-temperature applications, operation below 200 °C is stable, especially in comparison to liquid electrolytes. In most cases, the upper operating temperature of solid-state batteries is the melting temperature of the lithium metal anode (180 °C). Stable cycling of solid-state batteries that utilize sulfide solid electrolytes has been demonstrated below this temperature as long as appropriate actions are taken to ensure the electrochemical stability of the materials and interfaces.-

6 Electrochemical Stability
---------------------------

The electrochemical stability of an electrolyte is an important consideration for maximizing the energy density of a lithium battery. The use of an electrolyte that is unstable in the potential window of the full cell can lead to side reactions that result in the formation of a solid–electrolyte interphase (SEI). A SEI is detrimental for two reasons: its formation consumes lithium and reduces the capacity of the cell, and it is often less ionically conductive than the electrolyte which introduces a large interfacial resistance. In a traditional lithium-ion battery, the liquid electrolyte is unstable at the lithiation potential of the graphite anode resulting in the decomposition of the organic solvents. The resulting SEI is not electronically conductive, inhibiting further decomposition of the electrolyte, and is somewhat ionically conductive, allowing for continued cycling of the battery. Thus, even in the absence of perfect electrochemical stability, a material can still be a viable electrolyte provided that its SEI is self-limiting and ionically conductive.

Early measurements of the electrochemical stability windows of sulfide solid electrolytes demonstrated remarkable stabilities ranging from 0 to >5 V versus Li., - Despite this, half- and full-cell cycling studies utilizing typical battery electrodes exhibited large cell resistances that increased over time and eventually led to device failure., - Several theories were proposed to explain the high resistances including poor interfacial contact between the electrodes and electrolyte, chemical interactions of the components during processing, and the formation of a space charge layer that impedes lithium diffusion.,  Although interfacial contact has also been found to be important for electrochemical stability, the formation of a space charge layer has been largely discredited.

First-principles calculations have since predicted much smaller electrochemical stability windows for sulfide solid electrolytes (Figure ), suggesting that degradation of the solid electrolyte is likely the cause of the observed interfacial resistance., , - The discrepancy between the calculated and experimentally measured values has been attributed to the electrochemical techniques and experimental arrangements used to evaluate electrochemical stability windows. Linear sweep and cyclic voltammetry are often used to scan a certain potential range for the identification of peaks associated with the oxidation or reduction of the solid electrolyte. However, the large currents typically observed during the plating and/or stripping of lithium near 0 V versus Li may mask smaller currents associated with degradation processes. In such cases, it is also hypothesized that the breakdown of the electrolyte may be kinetically limited and more extensive degradation may not be observed in the time frame of the experiment.

Figure 12

Calculated electrochemical stability windows for a variety of solid electrolytes. The dashed lines mark the oxidation potentials to fully delithiate the material. Reproduced with permission. Copyright 2015, American Chemical Society.

In solid state electrochemical devices, the composition of the SEI is dependent on the compositions of both the solid electrolyte and the electrode. Unlike traditional lithium-ion batteries where decomposition of the liquid electrolyte controls the formation of a passivating layer, it is possible that SEI products in solid state devices are electronically conductive. This can lead to the continual growth of the SEI during cycling, further reducing the capacity of the cell and increasing the resistance of the interface. There is also evidence that sulfide solid electrolytes and their decomposition products are electrochemically active, further complicating the characterization and evaluation of these materials in half- and full-cells.- In the absence of perfect electrochemical stability, it is therefore important to identify the SEI products of sulfide solid electrolytes and their reactions with anodes and cathodes.

### 6.1 Anode Stability

#### 6.1.1 Lithium Metal

The ability to use lithium metal anodes without concern for dendrites is a major advantage for using solid electrolytes. However, thermodynamic calculations for crystalline sulfide solid electrolytes have shown an instability at the solid electrolyte/lithium interface leading to decomposition of the sulfide.,  Due to the irregularity of glass structures, DFT calculations have not been performed, but experiments have demonstrated the same instability of these systems against lithium metal.,  Although specific decomposition products are dependent on the composition of the sulfide solid electrolyte, Li2S is present in the SEI at the anode interface for all sulfide solid electrolytes. The formation of this compound is thermodynamically predicted at the electrochemical potential of lithium, and Li2S is a poor electronic and ionic conductor, resulting in a self-limiting SEI., 

The incorporation of phosphorus into sulfides leads to a general weakening of the electrochemical stability of the materials. First-principles calculations that were used to determine the stability of the β-LPS system against lithium metal found that the LPS structure is only stable to ≈1.7 V versus Li. Below this potential, phosphorus-doped sulfides further reduce into Li2S and Li3P., ,  The predicted decomposition products were verified through in situ Raman spectroscopy which also found that LPS undergoes a partially reversible conversion of the PS4units into P2S64− dimers that lead to the formation of an intermediate phase before fully reducing to Li3P. It is important to note that Li3P and potentially other partially reduced phosphide intermediates are electronically conductive, which can lead to the propagation of the SEI during cycling. This mechanism correlates well with the capacity fade observed during cycling of β-LPS which is believed to originate from an unstable SEI.

Germanium-containing sulfide electrolytes (e.g., doped thio-LISICON or LGPS) have also been shown to have a decreased stability against metallic lithium by DFT calculations,  (Figure ). Unlike doping with phosphorus, the use of the semimetal can form electronically conductive lithium metal alloys which lead to unstable SEI growth (i.e., Li15Ge4). These calculations are supported by XPS studies that show the formation of lithium-germanium alloys upon exposure to lithium metal. This alloying is found to be independent of the crystal structure with studies showing its formation for both Ge-doped LPS and LGPS structures. Similar alloying reactions are also expected for other semimetal and metal dopants in sulfide solid electrolytes based on thermodynamic calculations.

#### 6.1.2 Alloy Anodes

High capacity lithium alloys have been investigated as a route for avoiding the low electrochemical potential of lithium metal anodes. For sulfide solid electrolytes, the most common lithium metal alloys are Li-Al and Li-In with electrochemical potentials of ≈0.5 and 0.6 V versus Li, respectively.,  The increased electrochemical potentials of these alloys decrease the thermodynamic driving force for reduction of the electrolyte and studies with these anodes indicate that the sulfide solid electrolyte/anode interface improves significantly. Symmetric Li–Al cells were found to have a much lower resistance in contact with Li3.25GPS electrolyte than symmetric cells with lithium metal electrodes (Figure ). When studying the sulfide solid electrolyte/anode interfaces using XPS, no definitive difference in the SEI products was found. Instead, the improved performance of Li–Al/sulfide solid electrolyte/Mo6S8full-cells was attributed to the lack of SEI growth with continuous cycling. The use of Li–In anodes has also shown an improved interfacial resistance. When Li–In was compared against lithium metal and Li–Al using the Li6PS5Cl solid electrolyte with a sulfur cathode, the Li–In system exhibited the best cycle life and most stable interfacial resistance. It is unclear what effect the chlorine in the sulfide solid electrolyte has on these results because Cl reacts readily with Al metal. The stability of Li–Al and Li–In alloy anodes is somewhat surprising given the predicted stability of Li–Ge alloys at potentials <1.7 V versus Li that may lead to the propagation of the SEI. It is possible that the formation of these phases is kinetically limited and they are not formed during cycling.

Figure 13

DC resistivity of Li and Li–Al symmetrical cells after cycling with Li3.25Ge0.25P0.75S4thio-LISICON solid electrolyte. Reproduced with permission. Copyright 2004, Electrochemical Society, Inc.

### 6.2 Cathode Stability

The electrochemical stability of sulfide solid electrolytes and cathodes has only recently been explored. LiCoO2(LCO) has been used in traditional lithium-ion batteries since their commercial conception and with a high electrochemical potential of 3.9 V and capacity of 140 mAh g−1, it is widely considered the prototypical cathode material. Interestingly, thermodynamic calculations for several sulfide electrolytes systems have shown them to be unstable against LCO. It has been demonstrated that both LGPS and LPS have appreciable thermodynamic instability against LCO through the formation cobalt and lithium phosphates, sulfates, and sulfides, many of which are electronically conductive (cobalt sulfides being the most prevalent) and will lead to the continuous growth of the SEI., ,  Although LGPS will decompose to form LiGeO4as an additional product, it has a similar overall driving force for decomposition as that of LPS. Similar decomposition compositions are also predicted for the Li7P3S11glass ceramic suggesting that it is likely that the majority of the sulfide solid electrolytes are thermodynamically unstable against LCO. The degradation of the sulfide solid electrolyte/LCO interface has been observed in several studies as a large interfacial resistance that appears upon cell fabrication and increases with cycling., ,  Cycling of LCO with a composite sulfide (Li3.15Ge0.15P0.85S4/77.5Li2S–22.5P2S5) electrolyte was also found to form an increasingly resistive interface associated with charge transfer. In a separate study, XPS of Li6PS5Cl after cycling with LCO also confirmed the presence of sulfur, lithium polysulfide, LiCl, and phosphate SEI decomposition products. The use of carbon additives in composite cathodes for solid-state full cells also facilitates decomposition of the sulfide solid electrolyte and the influence of their inclusion on SEI products cannot be ignored.

In addition to the formation of a SEI at the sulfide solid electrolyte/LCO interface, the diffusion of Co may also play a role in reducing cell capacity and increasing interfacial resistance. In a study of the Li2S–P2S5glass ceramic electrolyte/LCO interface, Co was observed to penetrate the electrolyte after initial charging (Figure ). In a similar study involving the Li3.15Ge0.15P0.85S4/77.5Li2S–22.5P2S5electrolyte/LCO interface, the phenomenon was distinct with Co detected hundreds of nanometers away from the interface. This behavior has been hypothesized to result from either a fast moving decomposition front or from the diffusion of Co ions through the sulfide structure. First-principles calculations show that the exchange energy of Co for P is negative, leading to interdiffusion across the sulfide solid electrolyte/LCO interface. Co in the solid electrolyte is preferentially surrounded by S atoms forming a pseudo-LiCoS2compound at the interface which is high in vacancies. The formation of LiCoS2thus lowers the Li vacancy formation energy possibly leading to Li depletion at the interface.

Figure 14

a) Cross-section high-angle annular dark field (HAADF) STEM of sulfide solid electrolyte/LCO interface after initial charging. b) Magnified cross-section of with c) EDS mapping of Co shows diffusion into the sulfide solid electrolyte. Reproduced with permission. Copyright 2010, American Chemical Society.

Other cathodes have been investigated for use with sulfide solid electrolytes, albeit to a lesser extent. LiNi0.8Co0.15Al0.05O2(NCA) has demonstrated similar instability as with LCO in the LGPS/NCA system. However, unlike LCO, the synthesis method of NCA was found to greatly affect the resistance of the cell during cycling. This is attributed to the variation in surface composition of NCA and it is proposed that both surface defects and impurities will increase the degradation of the sulfide solid electrolyte/NCA interface leading to higher cell resistance. The dependence of the integrity of the interface on the surface composition of the cathode is highlighted in the pairing of Li2S–P2S5with a LiFePO4(LFP) glass ceramic electrode. The higher capacities observed in this cell in comparison to a crystalline LFP cell were attributed to the improved cathode surface. In contrast, a LiNi0.3Mn0.3Co0.3O2(NMC) cathode paired with LPS electrolyte showed increasing interfacial resistance with cycling, indicating that the SEI formed is unstable. DSC measurements revealed a shift to lower temperature for the crystallization exotherm of LPS glass when in contact with NMC electrodes corroborating the possibility of a side reaction. Sulfur-based cathodes including elemental S, Li2S,- and transition metal sulfides, , ,  have also been reported. While the solid electrolyte/cathode interface has not been the subject of study, electrochemical cycling of these cathodes should yield similar decomposition products as with sulfide solid electrolytes (namely elemental S). An interesting use of decomposition reactions was shown in a study where a single material, LGPS, decomposed into phases that could be used as the anode, cathode, and solid electrolyte. However, as with transition metal oxide-based cathodes, the diffusion of the transition metal leads to poor cyclability and remains a concern. In general, further thermodynamic calculations as well as experimental interfacial analysis are needed to elucidate the nature of these sulfide solid electrolyte/cathode interfaces.

7 Interface Engineering
-----------------------

Due to the poor intrinsic electrochemical stability of sulfide solid electrolytes and the formation of nonpassivating SEIs, new approaches are needed for improving the stability of the electrode/electrolyte interface in lithium batteries. Discussed in the following are the two most promising methods for stabilizing the interface: the compositional tuning of sulfide solid electrolytes and the use of artificial SEIs.

### 7.1 Compositional Tuning

Compositional tuning can be used to improve the inherent stability of sulfide solid electrolytes while also controlling the decomposition products to better match the chemical potentials of the cathode and anode. This can prevent the propagation of material breakdown and maintain low interfacial resistances, improving battery performance. Cation substitutions, including Si4+, Sn4+, Al3+, P5+, Ba2+, Zn2+, or Y3+ for Ge4+ in the LGPS structure, can have a wide range of influence on the stability of sulfides. Isovalent cation substitutions for Ge in LGPS have only a small effect on material properties, such as ionic conductivity, as demonstrated by the similarities between LSiPS, LSnPS, and LGPS. However, Si and Sn, as with Ge, are also unstable versus Li and tend to form nonpassivating degradation products on lithium metal. An experimental study found LSnPS to have poor electrochemical stability versus Li at low potentials, most likely due to conversion and alloying reactions as demonstrated through increasing resistances over time as measured by impedance. The relative instability of Si- and Sn-based sulfides can be offset in other sulfide systems. In Li3.4Si0.4P0.6S4, P5+ substitution into stoichiometric Li4SiS4leads to excellent compatibility with lithium metal and stability up to 5.0 V versus Li. Clearly, compositional tuning in conjunction with structure selection must be optimized to achieve the desired stability and material properties.

Aliovalent cation substitutions, such as Al3+, P5+, Ba2+, Zn2+ and Y3+, have the potential to improve the electrochemical stability in a more significant way. The aluminum substituted LGPS analog, LAlPS, shows improved interface stability with lithium metal compared to LGPS. The removal of Ge4+ in the LAlPS structure leads to enhanced cycling stability and allows for an electrochemical window higher than 5.0 V versus Li. Theoretical calculations also indicate that extremely large room temperature ionic conductivities may be possible in the Li1+2xZn1−xPS4(0 ≤x≤ 0.5) (LZPS) structure due to interstitial Li defects at high synthesis temperatures. Zn-containing sulfides are also predicted to have a lower voltage stability limit (≈0.5 V lower than Si-containing sulfides) due to the more negative formation energy per sulfur atom of ZnS compared to SiS2. It is also postulated that partial doping of LGPS with Ba2+ to obtain the composition Li9.4Ba0.3GeP2S12will increase the stability by shielding the coulombic repulsion of S2− ions. This approach has been shown to increase the voltage window to 0–6 V versus Li and lower the plating and stripping polarization in a Li symmetric cell. Additionally, initial theoretical calculations indicate that Y3+ substitution to form Li3Y(PS4)2may increase the phase, electrochemical, and interface stabilities of LGPS while maintaining a sufficiently high ionic conductivity to be a viable solid state electrolyte. Many possibilities for enhanced stability through cation substitution are emerging and further work is needed to analyze interface compositions and decomposition products in order to better understand this mechanism.

Anion substitutions offer the possibility of increasing the sulfide interfacial stability in a dramatic way. Typically, a halide or chalcogenide is substituted for sulfur in an attempt to increase the electrochemical and interfacial stability.,  Argyrodite-type structures of Li6PS5X (X = Cl, Br, I) have displayed promising ionic conductivity results, but poor cathode interface stability.,  XPS results have shown remarkable stability of Li6PS5Cl on the anodic side of an LTO/LCO cell. After 45 cycles, little decomposition was found on the LTO side. On the LCO side, however, the solid electrolyte formed decomposition products such as LiCl, phosphates, and polysulfides. Furthermore, similar decomposition products were seen at the NMC and LMO interface after 25 cycles in a cathode/Li6PS5Cl/Li–In cell. Dual substitutions of Si and Cl for Ge and S, respectively, to obtain Li9.54Si1.74P1.44S11.7Cl0.3achieves an exceptional room temperature ionic conductivity of 25 mS cm−1, but sacrifices electrochemical performance due to interfacial stabilities and the formation of S2Cl2on the cathode.,  Figure shows the electrochemical instabilities of LPS, LGPS, and Li9.54Si1.74P1.44S11.7Cl0.3in an LCO/solid electrolyte/Li-metal cell due to the formation of surface layers on the first cycle. The degradation shown here suggests that the majority of the high voltage cathodes will be unstable using a chloride substituted solid electrolyte. The lack of degradation with LTO is promising, however additional work on the stability against other high voltage anodes is essential to our understanding of interfacial stability.

Figure 15

Demonstration of first cycle inefficiency due to the formation of a SEI for some members of the LGPS family of solid electrolytes. The reduced discharge capacity indicates the occurrence of side reactions. Reproduced with permission. Copyright 2016, Springer Nature.

The use of other halide ions has also been investigated. The argyrodite-type sulfide Li6PS5Br has been shown to have excellent electrochemical stability between 0 and 4 V versus Li. Ex situ X-ray diffraction of the Li6PS5Br solid electrolyte showed no structural changes throughout cycling and coulombic efficiency was close to 100%, suggesting excellent stability. First-principles calculations on iodine substitution in LPS found that it decreased the intrinsic electrochemical stability of the material due to a PS3I phase, but the interfacial stability increased due to the formation of LiI at the Li-metal anode interface. An iodine-containing sulfide solid electrolyte, Li7P2S8I (LPSI), exhibited decreased polarization when compared to Li3PS4and much better electrochemical stability, up to 10 V versus Li. This improvement is attributed to a passivation layer that is sufficiently electronically insulating to prohibit further decomposition of the electrolyte. Typical oxidation and reduction peaks observed in cyclic voltammetry measurements of Li2S–P2S5–LiI systems are not seen in the pure Li7P2S8I phase, demonstrating the improved stability over Li3PS4and LiI components. An amorphous LiI–Li3PS4solid electrolyte exhibited a large capacity fade using an NCA cathode, but had excellent cycle life in a Li–S cell with a coulombic efficiency above 99.9%. In addition, no evidence of the polysulfide redox shuttle mechanism was observed in the first 100 cycles in the Li–S cell utilizing this amorphous solid electrolyte. Overall, some argyrodite-type structures and other halide-based sulfides display improvements over the stability of LGPS, but compositions must be chosen carefully to avoid enhancing degradation and nonpassivating layer formation.

Among the different sulfide solid electrolytes, oxygen substitution is the most common because of the inherently higher thermodynamic stability of oxides compared to sulfides. Oxide solid electrolytes have also been shown to have a higher electrochemical stability originating from decreased anion polarization. This stability, however, is at the expense of ionic conductivity. The stability of oxygen-doped sulfide systems has been demonstrated in a Li/0.01Li3PO4–0.63Li2S–0.36SiS2/Li cell. After storage for 1400 h, the cell exhibited a stable ionic conductivity, suggesting the lack of a high resistance interface. Additionally, the Li3.35P0.93S3.5O0.5oxysulfide has been shown to be electrochemically stable from 0 to 5.0 V with low resistance interfaces due to stable SEI layers. It is believed that the oxygen in the solid electrolyte decomposes against lithium metal to form Li2O, which has a high thermodynamic stability as calculated by DFT, and has been shown to have good ionic conductivity and poor electronic conductivity.,  Oxysulfides with the composition Li10GeP2S12−xOx(x= 0.3 and 0.6) were found to have high electrochemical stability up to 10 V versus Li and comparable ionic conductivities to LGPS (10.3 and 8.43 mS cm−1). Increasing the oxygen content within the range led to increasing cycling stability, suggesting that oxygen prevents the reduction of Ge4+. One would expect this trend to continue to the theoretical upper limit of oxygen substitution for sulfur in Li10MP2O12(M = Ge, Si, Sn), but these systems are predicted to be unstable due to a competition with the thermodynamically stable Li3PO4phase. Several of the oxygen substituted cells do demonstrate continued capacity loss during cycling, indicating that the oxygen decomposition products may be combined with mixed conductors that allow for further decomposition.,  From these studies it is evident that additional work is needed to understand how the oxygen doping affects the composition of the interface and how these decomposition products behave during cycling.

Selenium substitution has also been considered for improving the stability of sulfide solid electrolytes. However, the narrow bandgap and high valence band of selenides compared to sulfides and oxides could lead to a narrow electrochemical window and poor stability against lithium. Selenium substitution in select compositions, however, does not appear to be detrimental to Li-ion diffusivity or activation energy and may actually improve the stability. Experimentally, partial substitution of Se and Ga to form the electrolyte 0.5Li2S–0.5P2S5–0.5G0.35Ga0.05Se0.60has shown that almost no reaction with lithium occurs over a 0–6.5 V versus Li electrochemical window, suggesting selenide containing compounds can be advantageous for interfacial compatibility. The crystalline form of 75Li2S–23P2S5–2P2Se5and 5Li2S–P2S5–0.6GeS2–0.4SnSe2have both demonstrated excellent interfacial stability up to 5.0 and 8.0 V versus Li, respectively.,  Thermodynamic calculations predict that Se substitution in Li10±1MP2S12may form passivating layers of P2S5and PSe on the cathodic side, but electronically conductive LixMyalloy products may form on the anodic side. While it is clear that selenium substitution can improve the interfacial stability of sulfides, the mechanism behind the improvement is not yet clearly understood.

### 7.2 Artificial SEIs

The poor inherent electrochemical stability of sulfide solid electrolytes and the potential formation of nonpassivating SEIs may require interface engineering for the realization of commercially viable solid-state batteries. Sulfide solid-electrolytes are not stable in contact with lithium metal anodes or traditional lithium-ion cathodes due to mismatches between the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) and lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) of the sulfide solid electrolyte and the respective energy levels of the electrodes (i.e., the chemical potential of lithium and the HOMO of the cathode, respectively). This results in the spontaneous reduction and oxidation of the electrolyte at the anode and cathode, respectively. Figure shows an energy diagram of a full cell and the HOMO/LUMO mismatches that lead to the degradation of electrode/electrolyte interfaces. The use of an “artificial SEI,” or a material with an electrochemical window that bridges the chemical potential difference at a given interface can protect against unwanted side reactions of the sulfide solid electrolyte even against lithium metal. Figure  shows the electrochemical stability windows of various electrolytes and other materials of interest as artificial SEIs. In addition to electrochemical stability, these materials should also be chemically stable in ambient atmosphere and sufficiently ionically conductive so as to not increase cell resistance.

Figure 16

Energy diagram of a full-cell battery. The mismatch of HOMO/LUMO levels of the sulfide solid electrolyte with the LUMO of the anode and HOMO of the cathode can lead to reactions and degradation of the electrode/electrolyte interface. The use of an artificial SEI that can bridge the energy difference at a given interface can protect against unwanted side reactions. Reproduced with permission. Copyright 2015, American Chemical Society.

Figure 17

Electrochemical stability ranges of potential artificial SEIs grouped by anion, with corresponding binary for comparison. Reproduced with permission. Copyright 2016, American Chemical Society.

The use of artificial SEIs has become an effective technique for stabilizing the interfaces in solid-state batteries. At the sulfide solid electrolyte/cathode interface, lithium metal oxides LiNbO3,, ,  Li4Ti5O12,,  Li2SiO3,- LiAlO2, Li2ZrO3, and LiTaO3 have been demonstrated as artificial SEIs in the solid state. Half-cells utilizing LiNbO3and LiTaO3in particular have shown considerable promise due to the reasonably high ionic conductivities (≈10−5 S cm−1) and oxidation potentials of these oxides compared to other artificial SEIs. Some sulfides, such as Li9S3N or Li7P3S11,,  are also of interest but have only been demonstrated in half-cells or on a limited number of low voltage cathodes. At the sulfide solid electrolyte/anode interface, several materials have been identified for use as artificial SEIs. However, the high reactivity and low melting temperature of lithium metal has resulted in the demonstration of relatively few artificial SEIs aside from silane treatments,  and novel carbon-coatings.

Atomic layer deposition (ALD) is a promising technique for the deposition of artificial SEIs that utilizes self-limiting half-reactions in the vapor-phase to grow conformal films with angstrom level control. The ultrahigh vacuum required for ALD is particularly well-suited for lithium metal as it prevents side reactions from occurring with the electrode and atmosphere. The fine degree of control is valuable because variations in film thickness in the only moderately conductive artificial SEIs can lead to uneven lithium fluxes on the anode and result in the formation of dendrites or “dead” lithium that is electrically isolated from the rest of the electrode.

ALD is compatible with most artificial SEI chemistries for both the sulfide solid electrolyte/anode and sulfide solid electrolyte/cathode interface. ALD Al2O3was first demonstrated to improve the capacity and cycle life of lithium metal anodes.- Although Al2O3is not expected to be thermodynamically stable in contact with lithium or sufficiently ionically conductive enough to reduce the interfacial resistance of the electrolyte/anode interface, it has been speculated that the oxide lithiates during deposition or through electrochemical cycling (Al2O3≈10−10 S cm−1, LiAlO2≈10−8 S cm−1). The use of ALD Al2O3has also been reported to increase the wetting of garnet solid electrolytes by molten Li, thereby reducing the interfacial impedance, and similar benefits may also be observed with sulfide solid electrolytes. Other materials that are predicted to be thermodynamically stable against lithium and can be synthesized using ALD include Li2S, Li2O,,  and LiF. However, the deposition of these materials has not yet been demonstrated on lithium metal and the growth of these artificial SEIs may be difficult due to the possibility of non-self-limiting reactions with the substrate. Ternary compounds can also be synthesized through a more involved ALD process. ALD LixAlyS has recently been demonstrated as an artificial SEI on lithium metal with good ionic conductivity (2.5 × 10−7 S cm−1) and long cycle life (>700 cycles). ALD of artificial SEIs on cathodes is considerably easier than on lithium metal, and ALD Al2O3has been used to stabilize the LGPS/LCO interface. Additionally, LiNbO3and LiTaO3may also be deposited using ALD.,  More recently, LiAlF4was demonstrated with an ionic conductivity of 3.5 × 10−8 S cm−1 and oxidation potential of 4.5 V versus Li, enabling the use of high-voltage cathodes. The development of interface engineering seems to offer an exciting direction for avoiding the unwanted degradation of sulfide solid electrolytes at anode and cathode interfaces.

8 Conclusion
------------

Sulfide solid electrolytes represent a promising family of materials for improving the performance of solid-state batteries. By replacing traditional liquid electrolytes and using lithium metal anodes, solid-state batteries can offer the higher volumetric and specific energy densities needed for electric vehicle applications. Sulfide solid electrolytes encompass a large materials space including glasses, glass-ceramics, and crystalline materials and have demonstrated their potential as solid electrolytes. Owing to the more polarizable nature of the sulfur anion, sulfides allow for more facile lithium-ion conduction and higher ionic conductivities than their oxide counterparts. Sulfide glasses and glass-ceramics offer a nearly infinite number of chemistries that allow for tailoring of properties through the careful selection of glass-formers and modifiers. Sulfide crystalline electrolyte chemistries are much more limited but offer the highest ionic conductivities reported for solid electrolytes to date. As the understanding of superionic conductivity matures, a more rational approach to designing crystalline sulfide solid electrolytes is likely to develop. In particular, a percolating anion sublattice and a maximization of disorder/entropy in the system have been identified as major contributing factors to producing materials with high ionic conductivities., , -, -

Sulfide solid electrolytes offer advantageous mechanical properties compared to traditional liquid electrolytes and oxide solid electrolytes. The elastic and shear moduli afforded by sulfide solid electrolytes can be large enough to suppress the growth of lithium metal dendrites, and stable lithium plating/stripping has been demonstrated in cells with good interfacial contact and decreased porosity of the sulfide solid electrolyte. In many cases these requirements can be achieved without the need for high-temperature sintering as sulfide solid electrolytes are particularly unique in enabling the use of lithium metal anodes while forming good interfaces through cold-pressing/low-temperature sintering. The stability of sulfides in air during processing, however, is a concern that needs to be addressed.

The main drawback of sulfide solid electrolytes remains the poor electrochemical stabilities of the materials. Sulfide solid electrolytes have smaller calculated electrochemical stability windows than what is experimentally reported, and this is particularly problematic in the use of lithium metal electrodes. However, depending on the degradation products formed, the SEI may be passivating. The higher lithiation potentials offered by lithium alloy anodes and the careful selection of cathodes can be used to avoid degradation of sulfide solid electrolytes. Compositional tuning can also be used to increase the intrinsic electrochemical stability of the sulfide solid electrolyte, but the most promising approach to resolve this issue is interface engineering at the anode and cathode. Specifically, artificial SEIs can be used to bridge the differences in chemical potential and ALD has shown promising results in improving the cycle stability with sulfide solid electrolytes. Further exploration and optimization of these coatings are needed to allow for the use of sulfide electrolytes in solid-state batteries and to help these devices realize their potential in electric vehicle applications.

Conflict of Interest
--------------------

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

