

1 Introduction
--------------

Lithium (Li)-ion batteries (LIBs) have been widely used in portable electronic devices, electric vehicles, smart grids, etc. However, organic liquid electrolytes in commercial LIBs are flammable due to the low flash point of carbonic ester, especially at high voltages, which often causes safety hazards in practical applications. Thus, all-solid-state batteries (ASSBs) using solid-state electrolytes (SSEs) have recently attracted a lot of interest, because they are safer and more stable after the replacement of liquid electrolytes. Nevertheless, ASSBs still have some drawbacks such as low ionic conductivity for SSEs, high interfacial impedance between SSEs and electrodes, and relatively high fabrication cost, which impede their applications. SSEs with high ionic conductivity, wide electrochemical window and low interfacial impedance are critical in developing ASSBs with high specific energy and power density.

Currently, among various SSEs, sulfide SSEs have a Li-ion conduction capability comparable to that of organic liquid electrolytes (≈10–2 S cm–1 at room temperature). Various sulfide materials with a high Li-ion conductivity of 10–3–10–2 S cm–1 at room temperature, such as Li10GeP2S12(LGPS), Li10SnP2S12, and Li9.54Si1.74P1.44S11.7Cl0.3, have been investigated. Among them, a family of sulfide SSEs, lithium argyrodites Li6PS5X (X = Cl, Br), are attracting more attention due to high Li-ion conductivity (e.g., Li5.3PS4.3ClBr0.7: 2.4 × 10–2 S cm–1; Li6PS5Cl (denoted as LPSCl): 3.15 × 10–3 S cm–1 ) and relatively good electrochemical compatibility. The ASSB cells using argyrodites have demonstrated good cycling and rate performance. For example, recently, a sandwiched SSE separator of LPSCl-LGPS-LPSCl has been designed to prevent the growth of Li dendrites and thus enable superior cycling performance of ASSB cells; and LPSCl SSE has also been matched with the silicon anode, capable of operating with high current densities and achieving a long cycle.

One drawback of pressed sulfide SSE separator layers is that micro-cracks easily appear and expands during Li plating/stripping in sulfide electrolytes due to the rigidness of sulfide powders, leading to short circuit in ASSB cells. Thus a thicker sulfide SSE layer (e.g., ≈0.5–1.2 mm) via pressing sulfide powder was usually used in laboratory-type cells to guarantee the long-term cycling performance of the ASSBs, but this way reduces the cell-level energy density and is detrimental to scalable fabrication. Thus, it is desired to prepare sulfide SSE membranes with a small thickness and compact structure for advanced ASSBs.

To obtain a thin, free-standing sulfide SSE membrane, a soft polymeric component is often used. Recently, much progress in sulfide-polymer composite solid electrolytes (CSEs) has been made. Among them, Luo et al. prepared a 65 µm-thick bendable sulfide SSE using LPSCl and poly(ethylene oxide) (PEO), and their ASSB cell of LiNi0.7Co0.2Mn0.1O2(LiNixCoyMn1–x–yO2, denoted as NCM)||CSE||lithium-indium (Li-In) delivered 1000 cycles with a capacity retention of 74% at 60 °C. Oh et al. prepared a 80 µm-thick CSE composed of Li+-conductive dry polymer electrolytes (nitrile butadiene rubber-poly(1,4-butylene adipate)) and sulfide Li6PS5Cl0.5Br0.5, which exhibited a high Li-ion conductivity of 2.2 mS cm–1 at 30 °C and excellent thermal stability. Their NCM||CSE||graphite ASSB cells showed a capacity retention of 86% after 100 cycles at 0.1 C and 30 °C. Lee et al. prepared 30–40 µm-thick CSEs composed of LPSCl and a non-aqueous acrylate-type binder by using a doctor blade, and their NCM||CSE||Ag-C prototype pouch cell exhibited a capacity retention at 89% after 1000 cycles at 0.5 C and 60 °C. These efforts mainly emphasized increasing the energy density of ASSB cells by thinning CSE layers and did not focus on the cycling performance of ASSBs. The cycle life and rate performance of the ASSBs with thin CSE membranes in these works are not well satisfactory. The thickness of CSE membranes may play an important role in determining the cycling performance of ASSBs. In addition, the study on comparing the cycling performance of ASSBs to that of normal LIBs with liquid electrolytes is rare.

Herein, we report a thin (30–40 µm-thick) CSE made of LPSCl and a three dimensional poly(vinylidene fluoride-co-trifluoroethylene) P(VDF-TrFE) network skeleton via a facile electrospinning-infiltration-hot-pressing method. P(VDF-TrFE) exhibits more stronger polarity with high dielectric constant and is more flexible than commonly used PVDF, since P(VDF-TrFE) has a dominant β-phase with an all-trans conformation by incorporating TrFE groups into PVDF. Thus it is expected that P(VDF-TrFE) has some interactions with LPSCl to ensure excellent performance of the CSE. A well-designed P(VDF-TrFE) electrospun framework with an adjustable porous structure allows thorough infiltration of LPSCl particles to form interpenetrating LPSCl@P(VDF-TrFE) membranes. The closely packed sulfide particles form Li-ion conduction channels, while the P(VDF-TrFE) component makes the whole electrolyte flexible and bendable. We demonstrate the interaction between LPSCl and polar P(VDF-TrFE) to improve Li+ transport in the CSE through various tests and theoretical simulations. The as-prepared CSE shows high Li-ion conductivity of 1.2 × 10–3 S cm–1 at room temperature. In particular, the ASSB cells with the CSE membranes present super cycling performance, i.e., the ultra-long cycle life with 71% capacity retention after 20 000 cycles at 1.0 mA cm–2 (i.e., 1.61 C) among all so-far reported ASSB cells operated at room temperature. This work may shed light on preparing thin, high-performance CSEs, and pave the way toward practical sulfide-based ASSBs with high performance.

2 Results and Discussion
------------------------

### 2.1 Characterization of LPSCl@P(VDF-TrFE) CSEs

Figure  schematically illustrates the fabrication procedure of the interpenetrating LPSCl@P(VDF-TrFE) CSEs. Here, argyrodite LPSCl powder was prepared by ball-milling, followed by heat treatment as before. The X-ray diffraction (XRD) pattern of as-prepared LPSCl powder and the Nyquist plot of the LPSCl electrolyte at room temperature are shown in Figure (Supporting Information), respectively. The room-temperature ionic conductivity of the LPSCl electrolyte is about 3.9 mS cm–1. The as-prepared LPSCl powder was grinded for preparing CSEs. The scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images in Figure (Supporting Information) show that the LPSCl particles after grinding and sifting have a smaller diameter (about 1–3 µm as shown in Figure , Supporting Information) compared to pristine powder. As for the polymeric part, the viscoelastic and strong polar P(VDF-TrFE) with high dielectric constant was chosen. A self-supporting P(VDF-TrFE) electrospun membrane with an adjustable porous framework structure with void diameter of about 10–20 µm was fabricated. The SEM image in Figure  clearly shows the porous network structure made of uniform fibers with a narrow diameter distribution (Figure , Supporting Information). Large voids in the framework are important for the infiltration processing of sulfide particles. High thermal stability (Figure , Supporting Information) of the P(VDF-TrFE) is suitable for the subsequent hot-pressing process and is helpful to improve the thermal stability of the CSEs. With infiltration of LPSCl-toluene slurry into the porous P(VDF-TrFE) framework, following by solvent evaporation and hot-pressing (see Experimental Section), the free-standing CSE membranes (about 30–40 µm in thickness) with good mechanical ductility and bendability were obtained, as shown in the photograph at the bottom right corner of Figure . The top-view SEM image in Figure  shows a dense structure. The cross-sectional SEM images in Figure  and Figure (Supporting Information) demonstrate that the sulfide particles are closely packed and tightly bonded in the polymer framework, which is beneficial to ionic conduction. The energy-dispersive spectroscopy (EDS) mapping images of S and F elements in the LPSCl@P(VDF-TrFE) CSEs show uniform dispersion of LPSCl particles in the CSEs (Figure  and Figure , Supporting Information). The proportions of LPSCl particles and P(VDF-TrFE) in the CSEs are estimated as about 79 and 21 wt%, respectively, based on the thermogravimetric analysis (Figure  and Figure , Supporting Information).

Figure 1

a) Schematic illustration for the fabrication procedure of the interpenetrating LPSCl@P(VDF-TrFE) CSEs via an electrospinning-infiltration-hot-pressing method. The photograph at the bottom right corner shows a thin, flexible CSE. b) SEM image of a porous P(VDF-TrFE) membrane. c) Top-view SEM image for the CSE. d) Thermogravimetric analysis of the CSE and LPSCl powder under a flow of N2. e) Cross-sectional SEM image of the CSE and corresponding EDS mapping images of S and F elements. f) XRD patterns of the porous P(VDF-TrFE) membrane, CSE and LPSCl powder.

The XRD patterns in Figure  show that all the characteristic peaks of LPSCl can be indexed into a cubic argyrodite phase without impurity (ICSD No. 97-041-8490). The comparison in the XRD patterns demonstrates that the crystallinity of LPSCl does not change after the infiltration process and hot-pressing. The diffraction spectrum for the P(VDF-TrFE) shows three broad peaks at 19°, 36.7°, and 40.7°, corresponding to (110), (001), and (111) indexes, respectively. According to the peak fitting (Figure , Supporting Information), the broad peak at 19° can be divided into two peaks at 18.6° and 19.8°, corresponding to the γ-phase (3/1-helical conformation) and β-phase (all-trans, TTT configuration), respectively. The peak at 19.8° is much stronger than that at 18.6°, indicating that the crystalline region of the P(VDF-TrFE) is mainly the polar β-phase. The comparison of the XRD pattern for the LPSCl@P(VDF-TrFE) CSEs also indicates that the crystalline region of the P(VDF-TrFE) also mainly keeps the polar β-phase.

Figure  shows the Nyquist plots of the CSE at 25–70 °C. The ionic conductivity of the CSE membrane is about 1.2 mS cm–1 at 25 °C due to the high conductivity of LPSCl (≈3.9 mS cm–1, Figure , Supporting Information). The Arrhenius plot of the ionic conductivity σ is exhibited in Figure . The σ−Trelation accords with the formula σ =Aexp (−Ea/kBT), whereAis a pre-exponential factor,Eais the activation energy for ionic conduction,kBis the Boltzmann constant andTis the absolute temperature.Eais calculated to be about 0.3 eV, which is similar to that of pristine LPSCl. The electronic conductivity of the CSE was measured to be 3.4 × 10–9 S cm−1 by direct-current polarization measurement (Figure ). The electrochemical stability of the CSE from the cyclic voltammogram (CV) of a CSE+carbon||CSE||In cell (Figure ) shows that the CSE has a quite similar electrochemical window to LPSCl, in which the oxidative stability limit is ≈2.5 versus In/InLi, corresponding to 3.1 V versus Li+/Li, while the CV (Figure , Supporting Information) for a stainless steel (SS)||CSE||Li cell as usual shows a wide electrochemical window up to 5 V. The lithium-ion transference number of the CSE and LPSCl was calculated to be ≈0.993 and ≈0.999, respectively, both of which are about equal to 1 (Figure , Supporting Information). The critical current density (CCD) of the CSE (Figure , Supporting Information) is about 6.5 mA cm–2 with a capacity of 3.25 mAh cm–2, which is higher than that for Li||LPSCl||Li. Moreover, galvanostatic cycling performance (Figure , Supporting Information) of Li||CSE||Li symmetric cells was also measured at a high current density of 6.0 mA cm–2 (and a constant capacity of 3.0 mAh cm–2) at room temperature, though LPSCl is not quite stable with Li metal. As expected, the cell with pristine LPSCl becomes failure due to short circuit quickly at such a high current density. The over-potential of the Li||CSE||Li symmetric cell gradually increases from about 0.6 to 1.08 V within the first 30 h, due to interfacial interaction between LPSCl and Li, but then almost keeps steady within 200 h.

Figure 2

a) Nyquist plots of the LPSCl@P(VDF-TrFE) CSE at 25–70 °C. b) Arrhenius plot of the ionic conductivity of the CSE. c) Current–time curve of the CSE sandwiched between two pieces of stainless steel. d) Current–voltage curve of a CSE+carbon||CSE||In cell.

To further investigate the structure of the CSE, we conducted series of measurements including Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy, Raman spectroscopy, nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR), X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), and theoretical simulations. Figure presents the FTIR spectra of the P(VDF-TrFE) and CSE. For the porous P(VDF-TrFE) framework, there are six bands related to the three axes of the crystalline phase of P(VDF-TrFE). The peaks at 878 and 1174 cm–1 are corresponding to thea-axis, those at 845 and 1285 cm–1 are associated with theb-axis, and those at 1075 and 1400 cm–1 correspond to thec-axis. Specifically, the characteristic absorbance band at 845 cm–1 can be ascribed to the symmetric vibration of the CF2group (νsCF2) coupled with the symmetric stretching vibration of C–C (νsCC), and that at 1284 cm–1 can be assigned to νsCF2coupled with νsCC and the bending vibration of C–C–C (δCCC). The peaks at 845 and 1285 cm−1 can be associated with trans sequences longer than TTTT and TTT, confirming the presence of polar β-phase of P(VDF-TrFE). Compared with the P(VDF-TrFE), the peaks of the CSE are almost at the same positions, indicating that the β-phase does not change with the infiltration of LPSCl. It is worth noting that the new band at 1037 cm−1 could originate from the bonding of LPSCl and P(VDF-TrFE), corresponding to the coupling of the C–S stretching vibration with the C–H–S deformation vibration. Additionally, the new absorbance band at 579 cm−1 is designated to the vibration of F–P–F coupled with F–S–F. The Raman spectrum of the porous P(VDF-TrFE) framework in Figure (Supporting Information) also shows the six peaks at 845, 878, 1075, 1174, 1285, and 1400 cm–1. The band at around 3000 cm–1 is assigned to the C–H stretching vibration. For the Raman spectrum of the CSE, a red shift of the C–H band (2855 cm–1) can be clearly observed, which is due to the new chemical environment appeared in the middle of the structural group. The changes in the chemical environment may result from the formation of new bonds or the interaction of the two components in the CSE. The Raman peak associated with the PS43− group (418 cm–1) shows a broadening effect when LPSCl is interpenetrated into the polymer network, suggesting that the sulfide could be bonded with P(VDF-TrFE).

Figure 3

a) FTIR spectra of the porous P(VDF-TrFE) and CSE membranes. b) 31P NMR spectra of the CSE and LPSCl powder. c) XPS patterns (C 1s) of the CSE. d) 7Li NMR spectra of the CSE and LPSCl powder. e) Possible complex structures in the CSE based on theoretical simulations.

Figure  presents the 31P NMR spectra of the CSE and LPSCl powder. A strong peak corresponding to PS43− at 85 ppm was detected in both samples. For the CSE, a new peak appears at 119 ppm, which is ascribed to the P-(SR)x(R is a hydrocarbyl group) and further proves that the sulfide and polymer are bonded together. The 13C NMR spectra of the two samples are shown in Figure (Supporting Information). The peaks at 44, 86, 120 ppm are attributed to –CH2–, –CHF–, and –CF2–, respectively. A new peak at 160 ppm is observed in the spectra of the CSE, which can be assigned to the formation of a new CS bond. For the 1H NMR spectra (Figure , Supporting Information), peak splitting occurs at 1.77 and 7.665 ppm when the sulfide is added to the polymer network, while for the 19F NMR spectra (Figure , Supporting Information), a new peak shows up at −163 ppm. These changes could also be attributed to the bonding between the sulfide and the P(VDF-TrFE).

Meanwhile, the C 1s XPS spectrum of the CSE in Figure  also shows consistent results. The XPS peaks at 284.8, 288.6, and 290.8 eV are assigned to C–C/C–H, H–C–F and F–C–F of P(VDF-TrTE), respectively. An additional peak appears at 285.6 eV, which is attributed to the CS bond. XPS depth profiling analysis was conducted on the CSE (Figure , Supporting Information). The proportion of the CS bond increases with the increase of the depth, demonstrating the interaction between LPSCl and P(VDF-TrFE) in the CSE. In addition, the S 2p XPS depth profiles of the CSE and LPSCl are shown in Figure (Supporting Information). Three sets of doublet peaks at 161.3–162.6, 162.1–163.5, and 163.2–164.5 eV are attributed to the boned sulfur in P–S–Li, P = S and P–S–C, respectively. The signal of P–S–C appears on the surface and inner part of the CSE, further confirming the interaction between LPSCl and P(VDF-TrFE). Figure  shows the magic-angle spinning (MAS) 7Li NMR spectra of the CSE and LPSCl powder. The strongest 7Li resonance in both the CSE and LPSCl powder is at 2.8 ppm. For the CSE, two new resonances appear at −1.04 and −48.5 ppm (see the two right panels of Figure ), indicating that the Li active sites are facilitated by the combination of LPSCl and P(VDF-TrFE).

Density functional theory calculations and molecular dynamic simulations (see the Experimental Section) were carried out to further investigate the interaction between LPSCl and P(VDF-TrFE). The possible complex structures in the CSE based on our theoretical simulations are presented in Figure . In Figure (Supporting Information), the process for the combination of LPSCl and P(VDF-TrFE) is illustrated and the corresponding binding energy is calculated to be −2.88 eV through density-functional-theory calculations. Figure (Supporting Information) shows the snapshot of the LPSCl@P(VDF-TrFE) model after a molecular dynamic simulation run of 100 ps. The calculated interaction energy for the LPSCl@P(VDF-TrFE) model is −28.80 kcal mol−1, further proving the combination of LPSCl and P(VDF-TrFE) (Table , Supporting Information).

### 2.2 Electrochemical Performance of the ASSB Cells with LPSCl@P(VDF-TrFE) CSEs

To demonstrate the advantages of the LPSCl@P(VDF-TrFE) CSEs, the ASSB cells with LiNbO3-coated NCM (denoted as NCM@LNO)-based composite cathode and a Li-In anode were assembled (see the Experimental Section). LiNbO3-coating on NCM enabled use of the active NCM with sulfide electrolytes. First, to verify the electrochemical performance of our as-prepared NCM@LNO active materials, normal LIB cells with NCM@LNO mass loading of ≈3.1 mg cm−2 but with liquid electrolyte was fabricated (see the Experimental Section). As seen from Figure (Supporting Information), specific capacities of 202, 178, and 120 mAh g–1 were obtained at 0.1 (0.16 C), 0.5 (0.81 C), and 1.0 mA cm–2 (1.61 C), respectively. Even at a high rate of 5.0 mA cm2, a specific capacity of 63 mAh g–1 was achieved. When the current density turned back to 0.1 mA cm2, a large portion of the initial capacity was recovered, i.e., 189 mAh g–1. At a current density of 1.0 mA cm2, a discharge capacity of 99 mAh g–1 was still achieved after 3000 cycles (Figure , Supporting Information). These demonstrate that our as-prepared NCM@LNO active powder keeps excellent performance.

Now turn to our NCM@LNO||CSE||Li-In ASSB cells. The cross-sectional SEM images (Figure , Supporting Information) show a compact and clear interface between the composite cathode and CSE layer in the NCM@LNO||CSE||Li-In ASSB cell. As seen from Figure , the ASSB cells with the same amount of NCM@LNO (≈3.1 mg cm−2) as in the normal LIB cells above present the discharge capacities of 189, 173, and 114 mAh g–1 at 0.1 (0.16 C), 0.5 (0.81 C), and 1.0 mA cm–2 (1.61 C), respectively. When the current density returns to 0.1 from 5.0 mA cm–2, ≈92% of the initial capacity is recovered. Figure  shows the charge–discharge curves of ASSB cells at different rates. By comparison with the normal LIB cells above (Figure , Supporting Information vs Figure ), the performance of the as-prepared NCM@LNO active powder was basically developed in the ASSB cells. As expected, the normal LIB cells have bit lower polarization and higher discharge capacities than the ASSB cells, due to higher ionic conductivity of the liquid electrolyte and lower interfacial resistance in the liquid LIB cells compared with the ASSB cells. The CV curves of the ASSB cells at a scan rate of 0.2 mV s–1 (Figure , Supporting Information) present a pair of broad peaks at 3.67/3.95 V and these peaks at different cycles are overlapped, indicating reversible redox electrochemical reaction of NCM (Ni2+/Ni4+ redox reaction). The charge–discharge curves in Figure (Supporting Information) are consistent with the CV curves in Figure (Supporting Information).

Figure 4

Electrochemical performances at room temperature for NCM@LNO||CSE||Li-In ASSB cells with NCM@LNO loading of ≈3.1 mg cm−2: a) Rate performance. b) Charge–discharge curves at different rates. c) Cycling performance at a current density of 0.1 mA cm–2. d) Long-term cycling performance at a current density of 1.0 mA cm–2.

At a low rate (e.g., 0.1 mA cm–2), the ASSB cells present the excellent cycling performance. The ASSB cells exhibit a high initial discharge specific capacity of 168 mAh g–1 and a capacity retention of 93% after 2000 cycles (Figure ). The corresponding Coulombic efficiency gradually increases to 100% after a few cycles and then becomes stable. At a high rate (e.g., 1 mA cm–2 (1.61 C)), the ASSB cells also present the excellent cycling performance, even much better than the liquid LIB cells above. As shown in Figure , the ASSB cells exhibit more stable long-term cycling performance. They deliver the retained capacity of 108 mAh g–1 and the capacity retention of 92% after 1000 cycles, which are higher than that of the LIBs (88% after 1000 cycles in Figure , Supporting Information). After 4500 cycles, the ASSB cells deliver discharge capacity of 103 mAh g–1 with the capacity retention of 88%, yet the LIB cells almost become failure. In particular, the ASSB cells exhibit super long-term cyclic stability with a retained capacity of 83 mAh g–1 even after 20 000 cycles, and the capacity retention is 71% at the 20 000th cycles (see Figure , Supporting Information for several representative charge–discharge profiles of the ASSB cells).

Furthermore, the cyclic performance of the ASSB cells with high NCM@LNO loadings in the composite cathode were tested at 0.1 mA cm–2. As shown in Figure , the ASSB cells with NCM@LNO loadings of 12.39, 18.58, and 24.78 mg cm–2 exhibit initial discharge capacities of 168.6, 157.2, and 123.1 mAh g–1, respectively. At the 500th cycle, the reversible capacities of 144.1, 120.5, and 97.1 mAh g–1, still remain, corresponding to the capacity retention of 88%, 83%, and 79%, respectively.

Figure 5

Cyclic performance of NCM@LNO||CSE||Li-In ASSB cells with different mass loadings of the NCM@LNO active material at 0.1 mA cm–2 and room temperature.

Pouch-type ASSB cells with the same CSE and composite cathode were also fabricated. Figure  and Figure (Supporting Information) show the cyclic performance and charge–discharge voltage profiles of the pouch-type cells at 0.1 mA cm–2, respectively. The pouch-type cells also show a high capacity and charge/discharge platforms similarly to those of the coin-type cells (Figure ), and present a high capacity retention of 92% after 100 cycles. It also shows a high capacity retention of 81% after 200 cycles at 1.0 mA cm–2 (Figure  and Figure , Supporting Information). As seen, the pouch-type ASSB cells can power a bulb (Figure ) or light an LED lamp (Figure , Supporting Information).

Figure 6

a) Cyclic performance of a pouch-type cell at 0.1 mA cm–2. b) Cyclic performance of a pouch-type cell at 1.0 mA cm–2. c) Photographs of the pouch-type batteries with the CSE used to power a bulb.

3 Conclusions
-------------

A flexible, compact LPSCl@P(VDF-TrFE) CSE membranes with 30–40 µm in thickness have been successfully fabricated, and the CSE possess a high ionic conductivity of 1.2 mS cm–1 and low electronic conductivity of 3.4 × 10–9 S cm−1 at room temperature. By assembling the LPSCl@P(VDF-TrFE) CSE with the composite cathode of NCM@LNO and LPSCl, the NCM@LNO||CSE||Li-In ASSB cells present an outstanding high-rate capability and ultra-long cycle life. The ASSB cells are very stable with a 71% capacity retention even after 20 000 cycles at 1.0 mA cm–2 (1.61 C) and room temperature. Such a stable cycling performance is much superior to that of a corresponding liquid LIB cell. A pouch-type ASSB cells with the same CSE and composite cathode also demonstrate good performance and feasibility in future commercial applications.

4 Experimental Section
----------------------

#### Preparation of Electrolyte Materials

Li6PS5Cl sulfide electrolyte was synthesized as before. Li2S (Alfa, 99.9%), P2S5(Aladdin, 99%) and LiCl (Aladdin, 99.9%) powders were mixed by ball milling. Then, the mixture was calcined for 10 h at 550 °C in a quartz tube. The porous P(VDF-TrFE) membrane was prepared via electrospinning method. P(VDF-TrFE) copolymer powders (70/30 mol%, Piezotech) were thoroughly dissolved in the mixed solvent ofN,N-dimethylformamide (DMF) and acetone with a volume ratio of 3:7 to get P(VDF-TrFE) precursor solution. The P(VDF-TrFE) solution was then transferred into the syringe and electrospun with an electric field of 1 kV cm–1 and flow rate of 1 mL h–1 for 3–4 h. To prepare the Li6PS5Cl@P(VDF-TrFE) CSE, grinded Li6PS5Cl powder with a particle size of 1–3 µm was suspended in methylbenzene (99.9%, Sigma-Aldrich) by mechanical stirring at 30 °C for 1 h to obtain a homogeneous slurry. Then, the slurry was injected into a P(VDF-TrFE) electrospun film and casted with a doctor blade, following by drying on a thermostatic heater at 120 °C for 2 h to remove the solvent. Upon solvent evaporation, two films with Li6PS5Cl were stacked and hot-pressed at 200 °C for 2 h under a pressure of 10 MPa. The preparation of the CSE was conducted in an Ar-filled glovebox (O2≤ 0.1 ppm, H2O ≤ 0.1 ppm).

#### Fabrication of Composite Cathode

Commercial LiNi0.8Co0.1Mn0.1O2(NCM) powder was heated at 90 °C for 12 h before use. LiOC2H5and Nb(OC2H5)5were mixed homogeneously into anhydrous ethanol. Subsequently, the dried NCM powder was added into the solution above and stirred for 3 h. After that, the solution was dried at 150 °C for 12 h and heated in a furnace at 400 °C under an oxygen flow for 1 h. Thus, a LiNbO3coating was formed on the NCM powder (denoted as NCM@LNO). Raw multiwalled carbon nanotube powder was soaked in concentrated nitric acid at 120 °C for 2 h and washed with distilled water until the pH of the filtrate was 7.0. The modified multiwalled carbon nanotube powder was then dried at 70 °C in an oven overnight for subsequent use. Then, the NCM@LNO-based composite cathode for ASSB cells was obtained by grinding the mixture of the NCM@LNO, Li6PS5Cl, multiwalled carbon nanotube powders with a weight ratio of 7:2:1 for 30 min.

#### Fabrication of Batteries

Coin-type and pouch-type ASSB cells were fabricated by employing the above NCM@LNO-based composite cathode, LPSCl@P(VDF-TrFE) CSE as the solid electrolyte separator, and Li-In foil as the anode. The mass loadings of the active NCM@LNO material in the composite cathode for the coin-type and pouch-type ASSB cells were ≈3.1 and 7.4 mg cm–2, respectively. The coin-type cells with a high NCM@LNO loading of 12–25 mg cm−2 were also prepared for some tests. A pressure of 100 MPa was applied on the coin-type ASSBs. For pouch-type ASSB cells, the composite cathode, the CSE membrane and the anode were laminated in the polypropylene-coated aluminum pouch, with a size of ≈6 × 6 cm2. A positive tab was welded on the positive current collector and a negative tab was welded on the negative current collector using a resistance welder. Aluminum and nickel were used as the positive and negative tabs, respectively.

For comparison, normal liquid LIB cells were fabricated by employing the same NCM@LNO with a mass loading of ≈3.1 mg cm−2 (NCM@LNO, poly(vinylidene fluoride)(PVDF), multiwalled carbon nanotube powders with a weight ratio of 7:2:1), 1 m LiPF6in ethylene carbonate and dimethyl carbonate (EC:DMC = 1:1, v:v) as liquid electrolyte, commercial polypropylene separator, and a Li foil as the anode. All LIB cells were CR2025-type coin cells.

#### Material Characterization

XRD was carried out using a Rigaku D/max-2500 diffractometer with a Cu Kα radiation source to identify the phases of the samples. SEM and EDS mapping images were obtained with a Zeiss Merlin field-emission scanning electron microscope. Raman spectra were taken using a Raman spectrometer (LabRAM HR Evolution) at an excitation of 532 nm. FTIR spectra were acquired on a VERTEX 70 spectrometer. The TG analysis was performed with nitrogen flowing over the samples heated at a rate of 10 °C min–1 using a TA-Q800 instrument. XPS spectra was measured using an XPS system (PHI Quantera II, Ulvac-Phi) with a monochromatic Al Kα X-ray source. The depth profiling was done by Ar sputtering with an equivalent sputtering rate of 26.4 nm min−1 on SiO2. For each sputter lay, the time of sputtering was 7.5 s.

#### Computational Methods

Density-functional-theory calculations were performed in the Perdew–Burke–Ernzerhof (PBE) generalized gradient approximation (GGA), implemented in the Vienna Ab initio Simulation Package (VASP). The projector augmented-wave (PAW) potentials were used for the treatment of the core electrons. Kohn–Sham single electron wave functions were expanded in a plane-wave basis with a kinetic energy cutoff of 650 eV to describe the valence electrons. The Tkatchenko–Scheffler method was used to count for the long range dispersion corrections. A vacuum layer was set to be 22 Å. Momentum space integration was performed using a 1 × 1 × 1 Monkhorst–Pack k-point mesh.

Molecular dynamic simulations were performed in NVT (number, volume, and temperature (298 K) are constant) using the Universal force field. LPSCl was cut along the crystal plane (311) and P(VDF-TrFE) was built on the sulfide surface. All these simulations were performed using Forcite program.

#### Electrochemical Measurements

Two stainless steel (SS) disks were attached to the CSE membranes as current collectors to assemble the SS||CSE||SS cells to measure the impedance. The alternating current impedance measurement was conducted using an impedance analyzer (ZAHNER-elektrik IM6) in a frequency range of 1 Hz to 1 MHz with an applied voltage of 50 mV. The ionic conductivity σ was calculated by the equation σ =L/(RS), whereRwas the total resistance of solid electrolyte,Lwas the sample thickness, andSwas the area of solid electrolyte.

The Li+ transference numberTLi+was obtained using a symmetric Li cell by a chronoamperometry test with a DC voltage amplitude of 20 mV. The EIS tests with a 10 mV AC amplitude were taken before and after DC polarization. The value ofTLi+can be calculated according toTLi+=Is(ΔV−R0I0)/, whereI0andIsare the initial and steady-state DC current, respectively;R0andRsare the initial and steady-state interfacial resistances, respectively; and ΔVis the applied voltage.

To evaluate the electrochemical stability of the CSE, LPSCl and carbon were mixed in a weight ratio of 9:1 and manually ground in an agate mortar for 15 min. The same process was then used to prepare Li6PS5Cl@P(VDF-TrFE) CSE, except instead of Li6PS5Cl, a mixture of LPSCl+carbon is used to prepare CSE+carbon layer. CV measurement was performed on a CSE+carbon||CSE||In cell under a pressure of 100 MPa using a potentiostat (Biologic VMP3) at a scan rate of 0.2 mV s–1 from −0.6 to 3.6 V at room temperature.

Galvanostatic measurements were performed using a multichannel battery testing system (LAND CT2001A) in a voltage range of 2.2–3.6 V for coin-type and pouch-type ASSB cells and 2.8–4.2 V for liquid LIB cells (1 C = 200 mA g–1). CV was tested by a potentiostat (Biologic VMP3). Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy was conducted with an impedance analyzer (ZAHNER-elektrik IM6).

Conflict of Interest
--------------------

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

