

1 Introduction
--------------

Lithium-ion batteries (LIBs) have been deployed in widespread application scenarios since its successful commercialization in the 1990s. However, fire and explosion accidents lead to serious public concerns about their safety problems. On the basis of existing cases, flammable and volatile organic liquid electrolytes (LEs) of LIBs and their reactions with other compounds in LIBs lie at the heart of battery safety hazard. To realize higher stability and safe batteries, substituting LE with inorganic solid electrolyte (SE) is widely accepted as a promising technology. Furthermore, an all-solid-state battery (ASSB) employing SE provides a practical direction to engage Li metal anode toward high-energy systems. Therefore, the natural question to ask and requires extended investigation at this point is, “Are ASSBs really safe?”.

From the material level, oxide SEs show the best thermal stability, with initial decomposition temperature above 800 °C. Most sulfide and halide SEs can also maintain their structure over 400 °C, which is also much higher than LEs. Interfacial decomposition between electrode materials and SEs usually starts at a lower temperature than any components, with high-impedance products, volume shrink, gas/volatile generation, and heat release. Contradicted to common sense, SE can also suffer from thermal runaway, especially with the existence of highly-reactive materials like High-Ni cathode and Li metal. Recently, Kim et al. reported an explosive burn of a composite cathode mixture of LiNi0.8Co0.1Mn0.1O2and Li6PS5Cl at 150 °C in Ar, while another composite cathode based on LiFeO4exhibits no ignition under 350 °C. A series of studies on interfacial thermal stability on LiNi1/3Mn1/3Co1/3O2(NCM111)|sulfide SEs (75Li2S-25P2S5, Li4SnS4) have been conducted by Tatsumisago group, in which interfacial decompositions occur between 100 and 400 °C and are affected by state of charge, atmosphere pressure, O2resistance of sulfide SE etc. Our group has also investigated thermal reaction on LiCoO2with different sulfide SEs. Exothermal peaks in DSC curves start at 280–385 °C, while XRD-pattern variation appears at ≈500 °C. Delithiation states decrease the initial temperature to ≈200 °C, due to the degraded structural stability of Li1-xCoO2and increased O2generation. In studies on NCM111/LiCoO2-sulfide SE composites, no visible fire has been reported yet. Overall, thermal/chemical stability of the components plays a significant role in systematic safety/stability.

As one of the most active anode materials and high-energy battery candidate, Li metal has pitfalls in thermal safety. Violent combustion has been discovered between Li metal and NASICON-type SEs (Li1.5Al0.5Ge1.5(PO4)3(LAGP)/Li1.4Al0.4Ti1.6(PO4)3(LATP)), while perovskite-type Li3xLa2/3-xTiO3(LLTO), and garnet-type Li6.4La3Zr1.4Ta0.6O12(LLZO) show better thermal stability with metallic Li. Additionally, LAGP shows higher reaction kinetics with molten Li than LATP in both ARC test and in situ SEM. Moreover, defect sites like cracks, atomic structural defects, and voids with bare Li metal may contribute to the frontier of the reaction. However, the mechanism for triggering thermal runaway still hangs in doubt. Oxygen releases from SEs and then violently reacts with metallic Li at elevated temperatures, which is usually regarded as the main reason for the sequential exothermal reaction. Yan et al. claimed that the collapse of PO4tetrahedra/TiO6octahedra and the subsequent formation of Li−O, Li−P−O, and Li−Ti−O species with a large amount of heat-generation should be responsible for thermal runaway. Recently, thermal stability between sulfide SEs and Li metal has also been reported. Limited by its instability in air, toxic gas release, and strong corrosiveness toward characterization instruments, investigation on thermal stability of sulfide SE is still very scarce compared to other electrolyte systems. Comprehensive in-depth insights on thermal runaway mechanism of sulfide SE is urgently needed. Revealing thermal runaway scenarios and thermal failure mechanism is an essential step for application and commercialization of ASSBs. Among them, understanding the thermal stability between Li metal and SEs is especially critical, not only because it paves the way for designing Li-metal ASSBs, but also because it contributes to better understanding in the influence of residual lithium or lithium dendrite on ASSB-level thermal safety.

Among various SEs, sulfide SE stands out due to its high ionic conductivity and desirable machinability. In our previous work, thermal stability of typical sulfide SEs have been systematically investigated (Li6PS5Cl > Li4SnS4> Li9.54Si1.74P1.44S11.7Cl0.3> Li3PS4> Li7P3S11.), and sulfur precipitation at elevated temperatures/their flammability in air were reported. Herein, we move forward to interfacial-level stability between Li metal and sulfide SEs for better understanding thermal stability of high-energy-density sulfide-based Li-metal ASSBs. Results show that even in an oxygen-free environment, sulfide SEs still have the risk of thermal runaway. Thermodynamic calculation and previous research show that sulfide SEs have a strong reaction trend toward metallic lithium. Therefore, how the interfacial decomposition evolves into thermal runaway is of critical importance in thermal safety investigation. Thermal behaviors between sulfide SEs and Li metal are systematically studied by accelerating rate calorimeter(ARC) test and the interfacial thermal stability of five typical sulfide SEs toward Li metal are found to follow the order of Li6PS5Cl > Li3PS4> Li9.54Si1.74P1.44S11.7Cl0.3> Li4SnS4> Li7P3S11. Through ex situ characterizations at different temperature sites and First-Principle calculations, we suggest that the contradiction between material-level and Li-metal-interface-level thermal stabilities may result from the interphase layer formed during interfacial decomposition. First of all, Dense passivation layer dominantly formed from the reaction between self-decomposition products, and metallic Li retarded the interfacial decomposition to some degree. Moreover, highly active interphase can accelerate interfacial decomposition between Li4SnS4and Li into thermal runaway disaster. Furthermore, higher thermodynamic stability of both sulfide SE and decomposition interphase toward Li contribute to higher thermal stability of the whole system. Therefore, the driving force of SE/Li and SE/interphase layer co-influence the thermal decomposition process. Our research provides a systematic and comprehensive insight on interfacial thermal stability of sulfide SE/Li, which is necessary for the future design of high-thermal-safety ASSBs.

2 Results and Discussion
------------------------

To investigate the interfacial thermal stability between Li and sulfide SE, sulfide SE pellet was placed on melted Li according to specific mass ratio in a stainless steel dish at 200 °C and then co-heated to 400 °C. Sequential images as a function of time are shown in Figure . Surprisingly, Li4SnS4(L4) showing good thermal stability on material level and oxide cathode interfacial-level seems to fail in Li-metal thermal compatibility as the first group to exhibit violent reactions at elevated temperatures from 200 to 300 °C. During the reaction, L4 pellet showed huge volume expansion with spark at the reaction front. Notably, although no visible decomposition of Li3PS4(L3) and Li7P3S11(L7) groups has been observed from 200 to 300 °C, they suffered from explosive burn during heating from 300 to 400 °C even in Ar atmosphere. Before combustion, the deepening color of SE pellet and the appearance of black spots on the surface could be distinguished, and then the sample burst into a fierce flame. Li6PS5Cl (L6) pellet and Li9.54Si1.74P1.44S11.7Cl0.3(LiSiPSCl) showed no visible shape change up to 400 °C except that the exposed lithium metal surface turned black. Interestingly, fire could also occur when hand-grinding Li and SE powder, and the phenomenon is basically consistent with heating-test-triggered thermal runaway in Figure . This indicates that the reaction between Li metal and sulfide SEs is caused by thermodynamic instability, in which energy could be provided by frictional heat or external heating.

Figure 1

Digital images of SE/Li sample at elevated temperatures in glove box. a) Sequential images of SE/Li sample as a function of time during heating (from 200 to 400 °C). b) Sequential images of SE/Li sample as a function of time during hand-grinding.

Post-mortem XRD characterizations were performed after heating tests to identify decomposition products. In Figure , XRD patterns of all groups have changed after heating. The major products in L3 (Figure ) and L7 (Figure ) groups are Li2S and Li3P, and diffraction peaks of reactants completely disappeared after the fierce burn. Therefore, it is inferred that major pathways of the two reactions are: Li3PS4+ 8 Li → Li3P + 4 Li2S and Li7P3S11+ 24 Li → 3 Li3P + 11 Li2S. However, the final compositions in L4 group are more complex. As shown in Figure , five decomposition products (LiSn, Li5Sn2, Li2S, SnS2, Sn) and residual L4 remained after the reaction. Previous cryo-electron microscopy indicates 2Li + 2Li4SnS4→ 5Li2S + Sn2S3reaction at L4-Li interface. Apparently, at elevated temperatures, Sn/Li–Sn alloy would also form as verified in our XRD patterns. Adverse impact of Sn/Li–Sn alloy on thermal stability of sulfide SE- Li metal system is also confirmed by Vishnugopi et al.. Moreover, the physical contact failure caused by the huge volume change of the reaction and Li depletion by Li-Sn alloy leads to reactants (L4) in the remaining mixture products. Although no significant decomposition of L6 and LiSiPSCl group have been observed in heating test, XRD patterns demonstrated decomposition in contact area. According to Figure , in LiSiPSCl group, diffraction peaks mainly correspond to Li2S, Li3P, Si, LiCl, residual Li and LiSiPSCl. Figure  demonstrates Li2S impurity formed in L6 group. Therefore, the thermal decomposition pathway of LiSiPSCl/Li and L6/Li are speculated respectively to be Li9.54Si1.74P1.44S11.7Cl0.3+ 11.172 Li → 11.7 Li2S + 1.44 Li3P + 0.348 Li21Si5+ 0.3 LiCl and Li6PS5Cl + 8 Li → Li3P + 5 Li2S + LiCl. Conclusively, five sulfide SEs in our work show thermal decomposition with Li metal below 400 °C, while not all undergo a severe combustion phenomenon during the heating process.

Figure 2

Post-reaction XRD characterization of SE/Li samples. a) Comparison of XRD patterns of pristine SE and post-reaction SE/Li sample. Product analyses of b) Li3PS4/Li c) Li7P3S11/Li d) Li4SnS4/Li e) LiSiPSCl/Li and f)Li6PS5Cl/Li samples after heating. Black line corresponds to XRD curves of the reacted sample. The pink line corresponds to the XRD curves of pristine SE. PDF of each product is presented below the XRD pattern. The peak labeled by inverted triangle comes from the preservation film used for atmosphere protection in the XRD test.

To further investigate thermal behaviors of Li-sulfide SE mixtures, an Accelerating rate calorimeter (ARC) is introduced to obtain thermal analysis data of the reactions, as it is a recommended instrument for thermal stability and thermal safety assessment. It boasts of the advantages of sensitive detection limit of 0.02 °C min−1 that effectively corresponds to initial self-heating temperature of the sample, small thermal inertia owing to the adiabatic design, allowance for large sample mass/volumes to diagnose thermal runaway. Five parameters {T1,T2,T3, ∆t, ∆H} are summarized to understand thermal behaviors and compare thermal safety between different groups.T1is the onset temperature of the sample self-heating reactions, defined as the temperature where increasing rate exceeds 0.02 °C min−1. It represents the thermal stability of the sample. After a period (∆t) of exothermic temperature rise, sample enters thermal runaway stage, in which the temperature rise rate will significantly increase by several orders of magnitudes.T2is a definitive triggering temperature of thermal runaway to quantitatively evaluate thermal safety, which is set by 1 °C min−1 here.T3is the detected maximum temperature of the sample during the whole test process. Due to the large mass in our ARC test,T3may exceed the thermocouple range. Nevertheless, this error could be weakened by taking the reciprocal when evaluating thermal stability/safety. ∆His the reaction enthalpy calculated by ∆H = cp(T3−T1) (J kg−1). Notably, since thermal runway usually erupt in an instant, the calculated ∆Hdoes not represent total thermodynamic heat release of the reaction, but it is still valuable for thermal safety evaluation. Usually higherT1,T2, and longer ∆tsuggest better thermal stability, while lowerT3and ∆Hrepresent better thermal safety of the system. Therefore, to better visualize thermal perspective of the sulfide SE/Li system, we take {T1,T2, ∆t, 1/T3, 1/∆H} as indicators of thermal-safety-characteristics Radar chart.

As shown in Figure , L7-Li exothermal process initiates at ≈183.7 °C. Interestingly, self-heating rate first increases and then decreases in the range of 180–270 °C(Figure ), and then continuously rises to thermal runaway at ≈332.7 °C. However, the maximum temperature (1887.7 °C) exceeds the upper limit of the thermocouple (1200), introducing some errors. According to Figure , the exothermal reaction of L4-Li starts at ≈246.9 °C and runs into thermal runaway at 297.6 °C after 627.7 min. The initial thermal runaway temperature of L4 is the lowest in five groups and it took shortest time fromT2toT3(Figure ), indicating fast kinetics of thermal runaway reaction, which is consistent with the phenomenon in Figure . Moreover, exothermal reaction of L4-Li sample is observed during 220–225 °C. The cracking of the passivation layer on Li metal surface might expose fresh Li metal and create a highly reactive site, in which L4 is more sensitive to those fresh Li metal and the thermal decomposition temperature might be lower to <200 °C. However, due to the large enough sample volume, the sample returns to heat−wait−seek mode after these small reactive regions are consumed. As shown in Figure , LiSiPSCl-Li started exotherm at 293.4 °C and run into thermal runaway at 350.9 °C with a maximum temperature of 2480 °C. L3-Li sample (Figure ) exhibited self-heating onset at 293.7 °C and thermal runaway onset at 356 °C. This result is consistent with reported research by Bairav S. Vishnugopi et al.. In our experiment, L6-Li shows the best thermal stability with the highestT1(302.3 °C) andT2(360 °C). The maximum temperature of L6-Li sample reached 934.2 °C. Five parameters {T1,T2, ∆t, 1/T3, 1/∆H} extracted from ARC profiles are drawn in Radar chart in Figure . Generally speaking, a larger area on Radar Chart indicates a better thermal performance. However, since subsequent chain reactions are triggered by initial exothermal reactions andT3measurement is limited by many factors, we suggest that the thermal stability of five sulfide SEs follows the order of L6 > L3 > LiSiPSCl > L4 > L7, combining insights from Radar chart andT1as the main criterion.

Figure 3

ARC profiles of SE/Li samples. Colum i) presents the time-dependent temperature curves of each SE/Li sample. Triangle point represents the initiation of exothermal process (T1). Colum ii) presents enlarged time-dependent temperature curves(150 to 400 °C) of each SE/Li sample. Colum iii) presents the temperature versus self-heating rate of each SE/Li sample. Star point represents the defined initiation of thermal runaway process (T2). Colum iv presents the Radar Chat coordinates {T1,T2, ∆t, 1/T3, 1/∆H}. Each line presents the corresponding data of a) Li7P3S11/Li, b) Li4SnS4/Li, c) LiSiPSCl/Li, d) Li3PS4/Li, and e) Li6PS5Cl/Li samples.

The kinetic parameters of the reaction (frequency factorAand activation energyEa) could be obtained from ARC profile by plotting ln dT/dt versus 1/T(Figure , Suppporting Information). The activation energy (Ea) of reaction can be calculated from the slope, and the frequency factor (A) of the Arrhenius equation is determined from the intercept of the fitted line. More details of the calculation are presented in the Supporting Information. Key parameters are summarized in Table .

Table 1.
 Key parameters extracted from ARC results of each SE/Li sample

| Material | T1 | T2 | T3 | Δt | Δt′ | ΔH | Ea | A |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| L6+Li | 302.321 | 360.026 | 934.211 | 427.04 | 22.6 | 920.402 | 1.73 | 1.04 × 1012 |
| L3+Li | 293.698 | 355.968 | 758.714 | 350.032 | 25 | 677.335 | 1.42 | 4.69 × 109 |
| LSiPSCl+Li | 293.375 | 350.861 | 2479.756 | 305.528 | 25 | 3184.650 | 1.36 | 1.87 × 109 |
| L4+Li | 246.916 | 297.592 | 922.797 | 627.746 | 0.21 | 984.478 | 1.00 | 3.37 × 106 |
| L7+Li | 183.768 | 332.702 | 1887.655 | 1763.134 | 17.9 | 2481.856 | 1.36 | 4.64 × 1011 |

* T1is the onset temperature of the sample self-heating reactions (dT/dt≥ 0.02 °C min−1).
* T2is the onset temperature of the sample thermal runaway (dT/dt≥ 1 °C min−1).
* T3is the detected maximize temperature of the sample during the whole test process.
* Δtis the process time of the sample fromT1toT2.
* Δt’is the process time of the sample fromT2toT3.
* ΔHis calculated by ΔH= cp(T3−T1), where cp= 1456.585 J (kg K)−1.
* Eais the activation energy extracted from ARC profiles.
* Ais the frequency factor extracted from ARC profiles.

Based on the self-heating profiles from ARC tests, ex situ SEM was conducted to further investigate the thermal reaction process to thermal runaway. To analyze the interesting dome-like self-heating rate curves of L7-Li (Figure ), post-mortem SEM characterization is conducted for L7/Li sample heated at three different temperatures, 220, 255, and 290 °C. Black spots appeared on the surface of the detached Li foil at 220 °C, indicating interfacial reaction between Li metal and L7 pellet (Figure ). In SEM image in Figure , metal surface could be distinguished in dark area with strip-shaped interphase on it. After heating to 255 °C, Li foil is covered by the black interphase. SEM image (Figure ) of the Li foil surface shows nucleated ball-shape products. Moreover, the preciously exposed smooth metal surfaces also become wrinkled and rough (Figure ). Sulfur precipitation of L7 is observed to occur below 300 °C in our previous research. Therefore, reaction at 255 °C may consist of two mechanisms, i.e., direct and indirect interfacial reaction. Indirect reaction induced by sulfur released from self-decomposition of L7 and Li metal can passivate the surface and surpass the process of direct reaction, which decreases the self-heating rate of L7-Li ARC sample. After being co-heated at 290 °C, interphase contacts SE pellet and lithium foil more tightly, indicating a more intensive interfacial reaction. SEM of detached Li foil (Figure ) shows larger size of spherical particles than that of 255 °C, which implies further reaction at elevated temperatures.

Figure 4

Ex situ SEM characterization of a) Li7P3S11/Li, b) Li4SnS4/Li, c) Li3PS4/Li, d) LiSiPSCl/Li, and e) Li6PS5Cl/Li samples. Digital photos show the disassembled interface of Li foil and SE pellet after co-heated at set temperature. SEM images were captured in the area marked with circles of corresponding color. No special marking indicates a homogeneous morphology of the reacted surface.

Once L4 starts to react with Li metal, Li foil would be rapidly consumed. Therefore, only one temperature site was set at 260 °C and quickly heated for 1 min for surface observation of Li foil. As shown in Figure , color of the area (red circle) contacting with L4 pellet completely changed to black, and SEM images also corroborated flake-like products all over the surface. Different from the reacted interface morphology of L7 and L4, the other three sulfide SEs (LiSiPSCl, L3, L6) seem to react from some highly reactive sites and diffused from the reaction front rather than a quick cover by the interphase on the entire surface, indicating a slower kinetics at initial decomposition. Those highly reactive sites might be caused by the unevenness of the electrolyte pellets and the rupture of the passivation layer on lithium metal surface etc. In post-mortem test at 300 °C, LiSiPSCl and L3 show interphase formed on the surface. More cracks of the interphase layer and underlying lithium metal in edge region (red circle, Figure  for L3, Figure  for LiSiPSCl) could be observed than central region (green circle, Figure  for L3, Figure  for LiSiPSCl). However, no similar morphology was observed in L6 (Figure ). This indicates a less reaction degree of L6 at 300 °C, which corresponds well with the above ARC results. After heating at 350 °C, all three samples exhibit obvious reaction traces (red circle, Figure  for L3, Figure  for LiSiPSCl, Figure  for L6), especially in the edge area, in which obvious particle morphology was observed. Reaction starts from the edge because molten Li is squeezed into the edge by the influence of gravity of electrolyte pellet, subsequently leading to deformation and cracking of the passivation layer in this area. The images in the remaining regions (green circle, Figure  for L3, Figure  for LiSiPSCl, and Figure  for L6) also show rough surface topography, which demonstrate thermal reaction on the interface.

Above SEM characterization verified different reaction patterns in different SEs, which is affected by interphase. Herein, we further identified how the interphase layer formed during the heating process. Reported research shows two possible reactions between sulfide SE and electrode materials at elevated temperatures, namely direct reaction and indirect reaction. Direct reaction indicates the reaction of electrolyte and electrode, while indirect reaction refers to the thermal decomposition/reaction induced by decomposition products of the reactants (for instance, S and O2). Therefore, we designed an experiment to identify how the two reaction pathways take part during heating. A piece of non-contact Li foil is introduced near the sample (SE pellet or SE pellet with Li foil) as an indicator of indirect reactions. From XRD profiles in Figure , significant diffraction peak at 2θ≈ 27˚ indicates that Li2S is the major product in indirect reaction, which is formed by reaction of precipitated sulfur with Li foil. For each sulfide SE, a comparison group is designed to investigate the influence of Li on the decomposition of sulfide SE. As shown in Figure , diffraction peak of Li2S at 27˚ appears in L6, L3, LiSiPSCl, and L7 group (Line L3/L6/L7/LiSiPSCl without Li) and the intensity rank is L7 > LiSiPSCl > L3 > L6, which is consistent with our previous work. There is no significant Li2S peak in L4 group (Line L4 without Li), which might be caused by the low self-decomposition degree of L4, and the precipitate might be SnS2. When connecting with lithium metal, there is no significant difference among L3, L4 and L6 (Line L3/L4/L6 with Li), which implies that interfacial reactions of those sulfide SEs are more likely in a direct way rather than accelerating self-decomposition or reacting with decomposition products. However, precipitated sulfur surprisingly disappeared in L7 and LiSiPSCl groups (Line L7/LiSiPSCl with Li). According to reported AIMD simulations, PS4thiophosphate in sulfide SE structure would stepwise break P-S bonds and finally degrade to P3−/P2and S2−. From the aspect of self-decomposition of sulfide SE, those S2− fragments would somehow obtain electrons with the valence change of P and transfer to sulfur to precipitate, which is verified by our previous research. However, with the existence of Li, those S2− ions might be preferably captured by lithium and form Li2S, as the contact of Li–S and Li–P quickly increase in the first 20 ps in AIMD analysis. Moreover, Li foil reacting with SE pellet would preferably react with precipitated sulfur due to higher local temperature and higher reaction activity, resulting to the decrease of sulfur in the environment. A piece of tape is used to block the contact of the upper surface of lithium foil with the precipitated sulfur, and the non-contact Li foil is found to turn black again. However, the color is lighter than self-decomposition group (Figure , Supporting Information). We suggest that the capture of S would occur by both solid-phase pathway (reacting with S2−) and gas-phase pathway (reacting with precipitated sulfur), indicating that both direct and indirect reactions matter for L7/LiSiPSCl-Li interfacial thermal reaction. Moreover, because of the participation of indirect reaction of L7, Li foil could form a more stable and dense interphase layer between 180 and 270 °C in L7/Li sample. For LiSiPSCl, the self-decomposition degree is weaker, and the initial temperature is higher than L7, such that the passivation effect will be lost due to the higher sample temperature even if interphase layer forms.

Figure 5

Investigation of direct/indirect pathway of thermal runaway process. The left part shows the illustration of the experiment and right part shows XRD patterns of un-contacted Li foil in each group.

Thermodynamic calculations based on density functional theory (DFT) are performed to further explain the SE/Li thermal stability. The SE/Li interfaces are regarded as a pseudo-binary model and the compositional phase diagrams are constructed to assess the interfacial reactions. The mutual decomposition energy of the SE/Li interface is used to exclude the decomposition energy of electrolytes. Due to the “exponential wall” problem of determining the ground structure of the non-stoichiometric-ratio LiSPSCl, which has a significant effect on DFT calculation results, only the reactions between L3/L4/L6/L7 with lithium metal are considered and the results are shown in Figure . The large absolute values of reaction energies observed between L3/L4/L6/L7 SSEs and Li metals suggest that interfacial decomposition is thermodynamically favored. While L6/Li, L3/Li, L7/Li with the lowest reaction energy of −0.549 eV/atom (−123.5 kJ mol−1), −0.720 eV/atom (−123.5 kJ mol−1), −0.781 eV/atom (−135.6 kJ mol−1), respectively are in line with the experimental order, L4/Li shows relatively higher thermodynamic stability (−0.526 eV/atom, −118.3 kJ mol−1), which contradicts our experimental results. The relatively smaller reaction energy of L4 is reasonable since Sn─S bond is stronger than P─S bond, resulting to excellent thermal stability from material-level and oxide-cathode interface-level. However, poor performance of L4/Li sample suggests that other critical factors also matter in actual thermal stability of the system. During a solid-phase reaction, the reaction front might be the interface of interphase and reactants. Therefore, interfacial stability of decomposition products and SSE is further evaluated in Figure . L4 shows the worst stability toward decomposition products (L4/Li–Sn alloy), followed by L7/Li3P, L3/Li3P, and L6/Li3P. It is worth noting that most decomposition products can react with Li metal at a high reactivity, but no new material is produced, which has no impact on the conclusions of the reaction energy between SSEs and the decomposition products. The reaction energy of decomposition products with lithium metal and reaction products are listed in Tables in Supporting Information. In this case, L4 first reacts with Li to form Li–Sn alloys, such as LiSn, Li5Sn2, Li7Sn3, etc. Subsequently, the Li–Sn alloys could continue to react with L4 under a large thermodynamic driving force to decompose to Sn and other Li–Sn alloys. Moreover, low melting points of Sn (232 °C) is more conducive to the contact of solid-phase thermal reaction. Additionally, detrimental effects on thermal stability of alloy-type decomposition products may also exist in other systems. Vishnugopi et al. suggested that Sn formation in the Li10SnP2S12/Li interface during cycle would reduce thermal stability. In the research of Kaboli et al., LAGP with alloy products shows more reactivity toward Li metal than LATP without alloy products detected. However, this requires further thoughtful verification in other systems. Therefore, high reactivity of Li-Sn alloy decomposition products might take blame of poor thermal stability for L4/Li, due to the lowestT2in our experiment. For L7/Li mixture, Li2S, the major interphase of reaction between self-decomposition products and Li foil (as shown in Figure ), shows a relatively higher thermodynamic stability toward both reactants, and related reaction could quickly and completely cover the entire surface of Li foil, which successfully delay the kinetic process of thermal decomposition and thermal runaway of L7/Li. However, since this passivation layer is sacrificed with a self-decomposition of sulfide SE and the direct/indirect reaction simultaneously contributes to thermal runaway, the delay effect is limited. Reaction energies of L3/Li and L3/interphase fit the order in experimental result. For L6, higher thermodynamic stability of L6/Li and L6/interphase contribute to excellent thermal stability of L6/Li interface.

Figure 6

First-principle calculations and schematic illustration of thermal decomposition process of sulfide SE/Li. a) Reaction energy of different SE/Li samples. b) Reaction energy of interphase/SE in different SE/Li samples. Interphases are determined by phase diagram and the lowest reaction energy in each system is noted by dotted line. c) Three thermo-kinetic types of sulfide SE/Li thermal decomposition reaction.

3 Conclusion
------------

In this article, thermal stabilities of five typical sulfide SEs with lithium metal are systematically studied, including the structural evolution and thermal behavior. It was found that in interfacial thermal reactions, both thermodynamic and kinetic driving forces need to be considered for evaluation of the system-level thermal stability. For example, although L4 has high material-level thermal stability, it shows poor interface-level thermal stability with Li and quick reaction kinetics due to its highly reactive alloy-type interphase for facilitated thermal runaway. On the other hand, although L7 initiated self-decomposition at low temperature and precipitated a large amount of sulfur, it is interesting that the precipitated sulfur could form a dense Li2S layer on the surface of Li metal, which delays the thermal decomposition process to a certain degree. Nevertheless, reactions of self-decomposition/ self-decomposition products with Li /interface decomposition of SE with Li would proceed violently at higher temperatures and eventually induce thermal runaway. Overall, takingT1(initial exothermal temperature) obtained from ARC test as the main index with consideration of other parameters includingT2/T3/∆H/∆t, the interfacial thermal stability order of five sulfide SEs with Li is obtained as L6 > L3 > LiSiPSCl > L4 > L7. Furthermore, interphase layer formed at increasing temperatures could positively/negatively influence the kinetic process of thermal reactions, which depends on their thermodynamic favors toward the reactants.

Our research provides an in-depth insight on thermal safety of ASSBs. The different thermal behaviors between various sulfide SEs shed light on solid-state battery design. For example, we might be confused by the high material-level thermal stability of Li4SnS4while overlooking its poor thermal behavior toward metallic Li due to the poor thermal stability of Li-Sn alloy products. The rapid kinetic reaction in Li4SnS4/Li interface will result in the system not having enough time to manage thermal runaway once heat release of a single cell begins in practical applications. Therefore, selecting electrolyte with both higher thermodynamic stabilities toward Li and interphase is necessary.

Although inorganic SEs show priority in thermal safety, interfacial-level and battery-level safety concerns still exist, especially considering high-activity electrode materials like high-Ni cathode or lithium metal. Moreover, cathode in delithiated state is also more prone to thermal decomposition at lower temperatures due to poor structural stability. Furthermore, gas released from the cathode decomposition might trigger a cross-talk reaction in full cells. Figure  summarizes reported thermal failure in inorganic-solid-state-electrolyte-based ASSBs, from material level, to interface and battery level. More details are presented in Table (Supporting Information). With further investigation, the shortcomings of thermal stability of ASSBs will also be gradually revealed. However, it is worth noting that the initial exothermal temperature of some sulfide SEs/Li close to 300 °C and the onset thermal runaway temperature at ≈350 °C still show priority on LE-based batteries. Our study might shed light on the design of all-solid-state batteries with high thermal safety in the future.

Figure 7

Summary of reported thermal issues in inorganic solid-state battery.

4 Experimental Section
----------------------

#### Material Synthesis

All sulfide SEs were synthesized by high-energy ball-milling. Several raw materials as listed in Table  were mixed in ZrO2ball-milling tank with suitable ZrO2milling balls. The ball-milling tanks are sealed in an Ar glovebox (H2O ≤ 0.1 ppm, O2≤ 0.1 ppm) and then put into a planetary ball miller. The precursors after ball-milling were sintered in a muffle furnace at a set temperature with a heating rate at 5 °C min−1.

Table 2.
 Raw materials and sintering temperature of sulfide SEs synthesis

| SE | Raw Materials | | | | | Sintering Temperature |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Li3PS4 | Li2S | P2S5 |  |  |  | 200 |
| Li7P3S11 | Li2S | P2S5 |  |  |  | 260 |
| Li6PS5Cl | Li2S | P2S5 | LiCl |  |  | 550 |
| Li4SnS4 | Li2S | SnS2 |  |  |  | 550 |
| LiSiPSCl | Li2S | P2S5 | S | Si | LiCl | 550 |

#### Heat Treatment

All processes here were handled in an Al-filled glovebox with O2≦ 0.1 ppm, H2O ≦ 0.1 ppm.

#### Li/SE Chemical Reaction

Four reaction equations were assumed in advance and added reactants according to the corresponding stoichiometric ratio.

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

Notably, according to post-mortem XRD, not all equations were strictly followed, as we discussed in the “Results” section. Li-metal foil with the surface passivation layer removed was melted in a stainless steel dish on a heating plate. Then a sulfide SE pellet was placed on the melted Li. The sample was then co-heated to 400 °C and preserved at 400 °C for 4 h to fully react. Solid-state productions in Li/Li3PS4, Li/Li4SnS4, and Li/Li7P3S11were grounded into powder for post-mortem XRD test. In Li/Li6PS5Cl sample, Li6PS5Cl pellet was separated from Li metal and grounded into powder to operate XRD test.

#### Decomposition Affect Experiment

Self-decomposition group: lithium foil was attached on a stainless steel plate and placed next to SE pellet. SE pellet did not touch the lithium foil. Samples were put in a small hand-made stainless steel vessel and heated on heating plate at set temperature.

Li affected-decomposition group: SE pellet was pressed on a piece of lithium foil. Other operations were the same as self-decomposition group.

#### SEM Preparation

SE pellet was placed on a piece of Li foil and co-heated at set temperature for 30 min. After heating, the sample was taken apart and SEM characterization was conducted on the surface of Li foil.

#### Accelerating Rate Calorimeter(ARC) Test

Lithium foil was treated by a scraper to remove the passivation layer on the surface. Sulfide SE pellets (6 g) were sandwiched between two 5 × 8 cm lithium foils (6 g) and then vacuum-sealed in 7.5 × 10.5 cm aluminum plastic bag (Figure , Supporting Information). The above sample preparation was handled in an Ar-filled glovebox. Two identical samples with thermocouples were fixed on the stand in adiabatic vessel by tape (3M 7413D) (Figure , Supporting Information). The thermal behaviors were characterized by an extended volume accelerating rate calorimeter (EV-ARC, Thermal Hazard Technology) in heat-wait-seek mode (Figure , Supporting Information). Under this mode, the sample was heated by an increment of 5 °C and held for 30 min to reach thermal equilibrium, and then searched for the onset of self-heating. When the heating rate of the sample within the search time is greater than the set threshold (≥0.02 °C min−1), the instrument will enter exothermal mode, in which the vessel temperature keeps consistent with the sample temperature to achieve adiabatic state. The tests were performed between 50 and 400 °C. Digital photos before and after the test are shown in Figure (Supporting Information).

Conflict of Interest
--------------------

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

