

1 Introduction
--------------

All-solid-state batteries (ASSBs) have been commonly recognized as next-generation energy storage technology with high energy density, power density, and safety. Among all solid electrolytes (SEs) to realize ASSBs, sulfides represent one most promising technical route because of their high ionic conductivity and desirable mechanical deformability. However, most sulfide SEs are intrinsically unstable and react with air/moisture/water to release toxic H2S with completely damaged structure and reduced Li+ conductivity. This greatly forbids the practical application of sulfide SEs in ASSBs, raising up tremendously high cost and harsh requirements of inert-gas protection for production, storage, transportation, battery assembly, and other processes.

To solve this critical problem, many strategies have been developed to improve the air/moisture/water stability of sulfide SEs, majorly based on the hard and soft acid–base theory. H2O attacks P−S bond to release H2S by forming a stronger bonding with P5+ (hard acid) in thiophosphate-based sulfide SEs to replace sulfur atom (soft base) with oxygen atom (hard base). Therefore, substitution of hard acid P5+ with soft acids is supposed to be an effective strategy, including partial substitution such as Li10Ge(P0.925Sb0.075)2S12, Li6PS5I-20%Sn, Na3P0.62As0.38S4, and complete substitution such as Li4SnS4, Li3.833Sn0.833As0.166S4, Li3SbS4, Na3SbS4, Na3.75Sn0.75Sb0.25S4. Mo and Zhu also performed systematic thermodynamic analyses and predicted promising cations that can improve moisture stability of sulfide SEs by first-principle calculation. Moreover, doping of oxides (e.g., ZnO and LiNbO3) and post-oxidation process to produce core–shell structured sulfide SEs with oxysulfide shells have also been reported to improve the moisture stability of sulfide SEs. Last but not least, the introduction of polymers to stabilize sulfide is also investigated, such as 50% Li3PS4-50% poly(glycidyl methacrylate), and 95 wt% Li7P3S11-5 wt% polystyrene-block-polyethylene-ran-butylene-block-polystyrene. However, the exposure conditions of the above-mentioned modified sulfide SEs for ASSBs are still limited to dry-room environment (<3% relative humidity), far from real-world application conditions. Recently, a one-step gas-phase method was first developed to synthesize air-stable sulfide SE, which has no chemical reactions with water and generates no H2S. However, a universal method that can protect all types of sulfide SE from water, including the typical air-sensitive ones such as Li10GeP2S12(LGPS) type, argyrodite type, Thio-LISICONS, is still missing and in critical need. Herein, we report the first water-stable sulfide SE membrane, enabled by a superhydrophobic Li+-conducting coating layer that not only prevents the invasion of moisture/water, but also effectively transports Li+ in ASSBs. The protective layer is prepared by spray coating fluorinated-polysiloxane-coated Li1.4Al0.4Ti1.6(PO4)3(F-POS@LATP) nanoparticles that are synthesized via hydrolysis and condensation of tetraethyl orthosilicate (TEOS) and 1H,1H,2H,2H-perfluorodecyltriethoxysilane (PFDTES) molecules on the surface of LATP nanoparticles. LATP nanoparticles provide Li+ transport channel and microscale roughness. F-POS binds LATP nanoparticles together on sulfide SE membranes, providing nanoscale roughness and low surface energy. Benefiting from the F-POS@LATP surface layer, the protected Li6PS5Cl membrane can withstand extreme exposure conditions with water jetting in high-humidity environment (RH ∼ 70%). Moreover, the Li+-conducting F-POS@LATP layer has negligible influence on the electrochemical performance of assembled ASSBs, with a reversible capacity of 147.3 mAh g−1 after extreme exposure and unchanged cycle/rate performance. This effective and simple post-processing approach of sulfide membranes can be applied to any sulfide SEs and any other air/moisture/water-unstable materials, enable the transportation, storage, and usage of large-area sulfide SE membranes directly in air without inert-gas protection. This work may thus represent one of the most critical breakthroughs in large-area-sulfide-membrane-level improvements for their real-world wide application in mass-produced sulfide ASSBs.

2 Results and Discussion
------------------------

### 2.1 Preparation of Superhydrophobic Li+-Conducting Protective Layer on Li6PS5Cl Membranes

The preparation process of the superhydrophobic protective layer with fast Li+ transport capability on Li6PS5Cl membranes was illustrated in Figure , including the synthesis of F-POS@LATP nanoparticles and the subsequent spray coating process of these modified nanoparticles onto Li6PS5Cl SE membranes.

Figure 1

Schematic illustrations of a) the preparation process and b) the design principles of the superhydrophobic Li+-conducting protective layer on Li6PS5Cl SE membranes.

First, LATP nanoparticles were coated with F-POS through hydrolysis and condensation of TEOS (Si(OC2H5)4) and PFDTES (CF3(CF2)7C2H4Si(OC2H5)3) molecules on the surface of LATP nanoparticles via Stöber method. Proper amounts of TEOS, PFDTES, and LATP nanoparticles were added in an ethanol-deionized water solution, containing ammonia as the catalyst. TEOS and PFDTES molecules are expected to experience hydrolysis (Equation ) and subsequent condensation (Equations and ) reactions during the constant stirring process, accordingly transforming into F-POS and uniformly coating on LATP nanoparticles (Figure ). Hydroxyl groups on LATP nanoparticles would react with the generated F-POS or TEOS and PFDTES molecules, forming bonds that can bind LATP nanoparticles together (Figure ). The interactions between sulfide SE particles and functional groups such as the hydroxyl groups are equally important to bind LATP nanoparticles onto Li6PS5Cl SE membranes. The LATP nanoparticles (40–100 nm in diameter, average value = 66.0 nm), can closely aggregate into micron-sized secondary particles (Figure and Figures and , Supporting Information). After modification with TEOS and PFDTES via hydrolysis and condensation, LATP particles are coated and closely linked together by a layer of amorphous F-POS nanoparticles (Figure  and Figure , Supporting Information).

(1)

(2)

(3)

Figure 2

a) SCAs of a 5 µL water droplet on the F-POS@LATP-coated Li6PS5Cl membranes with different ratio of two silanes and LATP nanoparticles (RatioTEOS + PFDTES/LATP, v/m) with spraying volume of 2 mL in−2. Insets: Optical images of a 5 µL water droplet on the corresponding F-POS@LATP-coated Li6PS5Cl membranes. b) Low-magnification SEM images showing macroscopic morphology, c) high-magnification SEM images showing microscopic morphology, and corresponding d) particle size distribution of F-POS@LATP-coated Li6PS5Cl membranes with different ratio of two silanes and LATP nanoparticles (RatioTEOS + PFDTES/LATP, v/m) with spraying volume of 2 mL in−2.

Considering the chemical instability of most sulfide SEs with an ethanol-deionized water solution, the former products were centrifuged, washed with ethanol, and dried before spray coating. The as-synthesized F-POS@LATP nanoparticles are highly dispersible in n-hexane solvent, which is stable with sulfide SEs. Subsequently, the superhydrophobic protective layer was prepared by spray coating the homogenous suspensions of F-POS@LATP onto the Li6PS5Cl membrane. Video in the Supporting Information exhibited the spray coating process, offering benefits of easy and rapid assembly of the coating layer on a large area of flat or curved substrates. This advantage enables its application to large-area sulfide-SE membranes or composite electrode membranes. Moreover, the flexibility of Li6PS5Cl membranes was not changed after spray-coating, as shown in Figure (Supporting Information).

Thereafter, a protective layer with high superhydrophobicity like lotus leaves and fast Li+ transport capability was fabricated with compact and rough morphology (as illustrated in Figure ). LATP SEs have an acceptable room-temperature lithium-ion conductivity (10−3 and 10−4 S cm−1 for bulk and total), thus not only building the framework of a superhydrophobic layer with microscale roughness, but also providing a good diffusion pathway of Li+. The F-POS nanoparticles coated on LATP nanoparticles bind LATP nanoparticles together, providing nanoscale roughness and generating low surface energy due to the introduction of perfluorodecyl groups.

### 2.2 Effects of F-POS/LATP Ratio on the Superhydrophobicity of F-POS@LATP-Coated Li6PS5Cl Membranes

Superhydrophobic property of the F-POS@LATP-coated Li6PS5Cl membrane depends on its micro-/nanoscale morphology and surface energy, which is determined by its chemical composition. This can be effectively adjusted by the ratio of LATP nanoparticles, TEOS and PFDTES during the preparation of F-POS@LATP coating layer. According to previous studies, TEOS is a coupling agent that promotes the hydrolysis and condensation of PFDTES. A small amount of PFDTES is enough to make the coating layer superhydrophobic due to the consequent introduction of perfluorodecyl groups that determines the surface energy. Moreover, a further increase of the PFDTES content (VPFDTES/VTEOSfrom 0.5 to 4) has neglectable effect on the surface wettability to water. Therefore, we keep the ratio of two silanes unchanged (VPFDTES/VTEOS= 0.5), further regulating the micro-/nanoscale morphology and chemical composition of the coating layer by changing the ratio of formed F-POS and LATP nanoparticles (RatioF-POS/LATP, also RatioTEOS + PFDTES/LATP, v/m).

To characterize the hydrophobicity of F-POS@LATP-coated Li6PS5Cl membranes with different RatioTEOS + PFDTES /LATP(spraying volume of 2 mL in−2), the static contact angles (SCAs) of a 5 µL water droplet on these membranes were measured at room temperature (Figure  and Table ). Bare Li6PS5Cl membrane without any coating is hydrophobic with a water SCA of 118.0°, due to the incorporation of low-surface-energy fluoropolymer polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) as binders. If the coating layer contains only LATP nanoparticles (RatioTEOS + PFDTES /LATP= 0:1), the hydrophobicity of the Li6PS5Cl membrane was not improved (SCA = 117.8°). Once the reactants of F-POS were introduced into the coating layer (RatioTEOS + PFDTES /LATP= 1:1), the water SCA increased significantly to 148.2°, conforming the important role of F-POS in the mixture. By further increasing the RatioTEOS + PFDTES /LATPto 2:1, the F-POS@LATP-coated Li6PS5Cl membrane became superhydrophobic with an increased water SCA to 164.7°. Meanwhile, the water droplet could easily roll off the coated membrane, indicating that the water droplet is in the Cassie–Baxter state on the coating layer. The water SCA slightly decreased to 160.3° as RatioTEOS + PFDTES /LATPwas increased to 3:1, and remained almost constant as RatioTEOS + PFDTES /LATPwas further increased to 4:1 and 5:1. Moreover, to confirm the role of LATP nanoparticles in the hydrophobicity of the coating layer, the dispersion including only TEOS and PFDTES (RatioTEOS + PFDTES /LATP= 1:0) was sprayed onto Li6PS5Cl membrane, which also shows superhydrophobic property with a water SCA of 160.5°.

Table 1.
 SCAs of a 5 µL water droplet on F-POS@LATP-coated Li6PS5Cl membranes with different ratios (RatioTEOS + PFDTES/LATP, v/m). Spraying volume = 2 mL in−2

| RatioTEOS + PFDTES/LATP | Water SCA | | | |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  | 1 | 2 | 3 | Average |
| Bare | 118.4 | 117.5 | 118.2 | 118.0 ± 0.5 |
| 0:1 | 118.1 | 117.2 | 118.2 | 117.8 ± 0.6 |
| 1:1 | 148.2 | 148.8 | 147.7 | 148.2 ± 0.6 |
| 2:1 | 164.7 | 164.2 | 165.3 | 164.7 ± 0.6 |
| 3:1 | 160.9 | 159.4 | 160.7 | 160.3 ± 0.8 |
| 4:1 | 162.1 | 160.1 | 160.9 | 161.0 ± 1.0 |
| 5:1 | 160.1 | 159.5 | 161.0 | 160.2 ± 0.8 |
| 1:0 | 160.4 | 160.5 | 160.5 | 160.5 ± 0.1 |

The variation of hydrophobicity of coating layers by changing RatioTEOS + PFDTES/LATPis closely related to the corresponding changes in their surface morphology (Figure ). Bare Li6PS5Cl membrane is composed of small Li6PS5Cl particles with an average particle size of 909.2 nm and large Li6PS5Cl particles of 1–5 µm. These particles are bound by PTFE, which has low surface energy and thus makes the Li6PS5Cl membrane hydrophobic (Figure ). When the dispersion of only LATP nanoparticles was sprayed with a gas flow at a pressure of 20 psi, the nanoparticles that landed on the Li6PS5Cl membrane would be blown away. No dense or continuous coating layer (Figure ) can form because only a few particles can finally scatter on the Li6PS5Cl membrane. This can be attributed to the lack of F-POS, which plays a significant role in binding LATP nanoparticles with sulfide SEs and neighboring nanoparticles to ensure their uniform distribution. Once TEOS and PFDTES were introduced in the preparation process (RatioTEOS + PFDTES/LATP= 1:1), a continuous coating layer was constructed (Figure ). High-resolution scanning electron microscope (SEM) images show that LATP nanoparticles were coated by a large number of nanoparticles of 20–50 nm, with an average size of 33.2 nm (Figure ). The nanoparticles are supposed to be F-POS nanoparticles generated by hydrolysis and condensation of TEOS and PFDTES, according to previous studies. They provided roughness in the nanoscale, and acted as a binder to help form a relatively complete coating layer. The as-prepared coating layer exhibits improved hydrophobicity, although its spatial distribution is still not uniform. By further increasing the RatioTEOS + PFDTES/LATPto 2:1, a dramatic change happened in the morphology. The coating layer became dense and uniform, with roughness in microscale (Figure  and Figure , Supporting Information). The roughness can be attributed to the micron-size secondary particles of pristine LATP nanoparticles (Figure , Supporting Information), and the agglomeration of F-POS nanoparticles on LATP particles (Figure , Supporting Information). LATP particles are buried under countless F-POS nanoparticles of 20–60 nm, with an average particle size of 39.0 nm (Figure ). Therefore, the roughness in both microscale and nanoscale is constructed, making the water droplet in Cassie–Baxter state on the coating layer of Li6PS5Cl membranes. The morphology of coating layers keeps changing with the increasing RatioTEOS + PFDTES /LATPfrom 3:1, 4:1 to 5:1. Correspondingly, an increase in particle size of F-POS nanoparticles is observed (42.1, 48.3, and 52.2 nm, respectively), with more significant particle agglomeration (Figure ). This may be attributed to the elevated concentration of TEOS and PFDTES in solution during the sol–gel process. Meanwhile, the coating layer became less dense with more micropores with the increased ratio of F-POS, because of more significant agglomeration of F-POS nanoparticles and closer linkages between LATP particles (Figure ). These changes in microscale and nanoscale morphology should be responsible for the slightly decreased water SCA. As for the coating layer with only F-POS, a compact assembly of regular spheres with an average particle size of 46.6 nm was observed, forming a uniform layer (Figure ). The spheres are supposed to be fluorinated silica nanoparticles according to previous studies. It is worth to note that the nanoscale roughness constructed by fluorinated silica particles is already sufficient for superhydrophobicity, but LATP nanoparticles are necessary to provide the diffusion pathway for lithium ions.

According to the changes in morphology and the corresponding hydrophobicity of coating layers discussed above, RatioTEOS + PFDTES/LATP= 2:1 shows the optimal performance among different F-POS@LATP-coated Li6PS5Cl membranes. LATP nanoparticles agglomerate together to provide microscale roughness and Li+ transportation pathways, while F-POS provides nanoscale roughness and serves as a binder to connect neighboring LATP nanoparticles with the sulfide substrate. To further confirm the adhesive effect of the F-POS, energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) elemental mapping was employed to investigate the elemental distribution of bare Li6PS5Cl membrane and the F-POS@LATP-coated Li6PS5Cl membranes with different compositions (RatioTEOS + PFDTES/LATP= 0:1, 1:1, and 2:1, respectively) (Figure ). The changes in the distribution of LATP nanoparticles are obvious. Different from the sporadic attachment of LATP nanoparticles on Li6PS5Cl membranes without F-POS, LATP nanoparticles distribute more uniformly and widely with the increasing ratio of F-POS, and eventually covered the entire membrane uniformly at the RatioTEOS + PFDTES/LATPof 2:1, indicating the crucial role of F-POS as a binder.

Figure 3

a) SEM images and corresponding EDS elemental mappings of I) bare Li6PS5Cl membrane and F-POS@LATP-coated membranes with II) RatioTEOS + PFDTES/LATP= 0:1, III) RatioTEOS + PFDTES/LATP= 1:1, and IV) RatioTEOS + PFDTES/LATP= 2:1, respectively. Spraying volume = 2 mL in−2. b) XPS spectra of bare Li6PS5Cl membrane and F-POS@LATP-coated membranes (RatioTEOS + PFDTES/LATP= 2:1, spraying volume = 2 mL in−2). c–h) XPS high-revolution spectra and corresponding curved-fitted results of F-POS@LATP-coated membranes (RatioTEOS + PFDTES/LATP= 2:1) for c) C 1s, d) F 1s, e) O 1s, f) Si 2p, g) Ti 2p, and h) P 2p, respectively.

Except for the microscale/nanoscale morphology, the chemical composition also determines surface energy to influence the hydrophobicity of coating layers. Therefore, the surface chemical compositions of bare Li6PS5Cl membrane and F-POS@LATP-coated Li6PS5Cl membrane (RatioTEOS + PFDTES/LATP= 2:1) were studied by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS; Figure ). Bare Li6PS5Cl membrane shows P 2p, S 2p, and Cl 2p peaks attributable to Li6PS5Cl SE, C 1s and F 1s peaks attributable to PTFE binders, and O 1s peak from contaminants. The F-POS@LATP-coated Li6PS5Cl membrane has no S 2p or Cl 2p peaks because of the coverage of F-POS@LATP on Li6PS5Cl. Meanwhile, C 1s, Si 2p, Ti 2p, and P 2p peaks appear and the intensities of F 1s and O 1s peaks increase. Specifically, the C 1s high-resolution spectrum can be resolved into six contributions (Figure ). C 1s peaks centered at 292.09 and 294.15 eV belong to the functional group of CF2−CF2and −CF3, respectively. Accordingly, the F 1s peak at 690.05 eV, corresponding to CF2−CF2units and terminal −CF3groups, is also observed. These perfluorinated groups endow the F-POS@LATP layer with low surface energy (Figure ). The C 1s peak locating at 291.34 eV is attributable to the functional group of CF2−CF2−CH2, and the C 1s peak around 286.31 eV can be assigned to the carbon atom of C−O and CH2−CH2−CF2. The carbon atoms of C−C(H) are also detected, corresponding to the peaks of 285.1 eV. The peak at 289.07 corresponds to carbonyl CO of organic contaminants. Therefore, the C 1s high-resolution spectrum confirms that the as-prepared coating layer mainly contains functional groups of CF2−CF2, −CF3, CF2−CF2−CH2, CH2−CH2−CF2, C−O, C−C(H), and CO, generated by the hydrolysis and condensation of TEOS and PFDTES on LATP nanoparticles.

O 1s high-resolution spectrum is also analyzed to further confirm the state of oxygen in F-POS@LATP-caoted Li6PS5Cl membranes (Figure ). O 1s peaks locating at 533.96 and 532.06 eV belong to C−O and CO, respectively, consistent with the above analysis of C 1s spectrum. The peak centered at 533.2 eV can be assigned to Si−O−Si groups. The peak around 531.42 eV may stem from Ti−O−P and PO. It is obvious that Ti−O−P and PO groups come from LATP nanoparticles, corresponding to Ti 2p and P 2p spectra (Figure ). Ti 2p signal reveals a pair of doublet peaks with Ti 2p3/2peak centered at 460.49 eV, showing the state of Ti4+. P 2p spectrum consisting of two peaks (a doublet) at 134.51 eV is attributable to P5+ from LATP. The Si−O−Si groups indicate that TEOS and PFDTES molecules become cross-linked during the hydrolysis and condensation processes, corresponding to the main contributions of Si 2p high-resolution spectrum around 104.18 eV.

Based on the analyses of chemical compositions of the as-prepared F-POS@LATP coating layer (RatioTEOS + PFDTES/LATP= 2:1) on Li6PS5Cl membranes, the formation mechanism of the superhydrophobic protective layer was confirmed. F-POS with cross-linked Si−O−Si functional groups were generated via hydrolysis and condensation of TEOS and PFDTES. Meanwhile, perfluorinated groups from PFDTES were demonstrated to be assembled in F-POS, which would significantly reduce the surface energy of F-POS@LATP coating layer and accordingly improve superhydrophobicity. This is because that surface free energies of −CF2and −CF3groups are only 18 and 6.7 mJ m−2, respectively.

### 2.3 Stability of F-POS@LATP/Li6PS5Cl/F-POS@LATP Membranes in Extreme Conditions

The superhydrophobic F-POS@LATP coating layer can avoid wetting of Li6PS5Cl membranes by water and may also promote moisture stability of Li6PS5Cl membranes during usage and storage. An extreme environment was set up to visually demonstrate the air/moisture/water stability of the Li6PS5Cl membrane with superhydrophobic coating layer, in which deionized water was continuously dropped onto the F-POS@LATP/Li6PS5Cl/F-POS@LATP membrane from 15 cm above. The F-POS@LATP/Li6PS5Cl/F-POS@LATP membrane was exposed to ambient environment with relative humidity of ≈70% and at 25 °C during the whole test, showing significantly different behaviors than bare Li6PS5Cl membrane (Figure and Videos and , Supporting Information). On the F-POS@LATP/Li6PS5Cl/F-POS@LATP membrane, water drops will bounce off the coating layer without leaving a trace, indicating an excellent water-repellency. In contrast, water drops will be pinned on the uncoated Li6PS5Cl membrane, and react vigorously with Li6PS5Cl SE to release H2S gas immediately, leaving a destroyed surface. The changes of Li6PS5Cl membranes with or without the protective layer after continuous dripping of water droplets are also compared to further illustrate the waterproof function of the superhydrophobic layer (Figure ). The Li6PS5Cl membrane with the superhydrophobic layer kept quite stable with water without obvious change during the whole test, confirming that F-POS@LATP coating layer can prevent the reaction between water and Li6PS5Cl. By contrast, bare Li6PS5Cl membrane immediately changed color after contacting water, and the reaction became increasingly more violent under the continuous attack of water droplets.

Figure 4

a) Schematic illustrations of I) F-POS@LATP/Li6PS5Cl/F-POS@LATP membrane (RatioTEOS + PFDTES/LATP= 2:1, spraying volume = 2 mL in−2) and II) bare Li6PS5Cl membrane under extreme exposure condition. b) Serial photographs of F-POS@LATP/Li6PS5Cl/F-POS@LATP membrane (RatioTEOS + PFDTES/LATP= 2:1, spraying volume = 2 mL in−2) and bare Li6PS5Cl membrane exposed in the extreme condition with continuous water-drop attack.

### 2.4 Effects of F-POS@LATP Nanoparticles Amount on Superhydrophobicity and Electrochemical Properties of F-POS@LATP-Coated Li6PS5Cl Membranes

The amount of F-POS@LATP nanoparticles has a certain effect on the hydrophobicity and the corresponding water resisting capability of the coating layer on Li6PS5Cl membranes. To determine the optimal amount of F-POS@LATP nanoparticles, different volumes of F-POS@LATP dispersion (RatioTEOS + PFDTES/LATP= 2:1) with a constant solid concentration of ≈0.4 wt% were sprayed onto Li6PS5Cl membranes. When 1 mL in−2 of dispersion was sprayed, superhydrophobicity was achieved with a significantly increased water SCA of 160.0°, compared with a water SCA of 118.0° for bare Li6PS5Cl membrane. Further increase of the spraying volume to 2 and 3 mL in−2 slightly increased the superhydrophobicity of the coating layer, with water SCAs of 164.7° and 167.2°, respectively (Figure and Table ).

Figure 5

a) SCAs of a 5 µL water droplet on F-POS@LATP-coated Li6PS5Cl membranes with different spraying volumes (RatioTEOS + PFDTES/LATP= 2). Insets: Optical images of a 5 µL water droplet on the coating surface. b) Top-view SEM images with the corresponding image J-processed images, and c) cross-sectional SEM images with the corresponding EDS mappings of S, C, O, F, Si, and Ti elements of these coating layers.

Table 2.
 SCAs of a 5 µL water droplet on F-POS@LATP-coated Li6PS5Cl membranes with different spraying volumes. RatioTEOS + PFDTES/LATP= 2

| Spraying volume | Water SCA | | | |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  | 1 | 2 | 3 | Average |
| 0 | 118.4 | 117.5 | 118.2 | 118.0 ± 0.5 |
| 1 | 160.5 | 159.1 | 160.3 | 160.0 ± 0.8 |
| 2 | 164.7 | 164.2 | 165.3 | 164.7 ± 0.6 |
| 3 | 166.7 | 167.6 | 167.3 | 167.2 ± 0.5 |

The continuous increase of water SCAs should be attributed to the increasing coverage rate of F-POS@LATP nanoparticles on the Li6PS5Cl membrane with the increasing spraying volume. Top-view SEM images (Figure ) and the corresponding processed images (Figure ) show that the uncovered area (red area) was reduced with the increased volume of F-POS@LATP dispersion. Accordingly, the coverage rates of the F-POS@LATP nanoparticles on Li6PS5Cl membrane (yellow area)/(yellow area + red area) with different spraying volumes of 1, 2, and 3 mL in−2 were 95.608%, 98.284%, and 99.603%, respectively. Meanwhile, the thicknesses of the F-POS@LATP coating layers keep increasing, as evidenced by the cross-sectional SEM images in back scattered electrons mode (Figure ). When 1 mL in−2 of F-POS@LATP dispersion was sprayed, the coating layer was not obvious (Figure ). As the spraying volume increases to 2 and 3 mL in−2, F-POS@LATP coating layers grow thicker to reach 5 and 8 µm thick, respectively, with uniformly distributed C, O, F, Si, and Ti elements (Figure ).

Considering the micro-/nanoscale roughness of F-POS@LATP coating layers, they may also influence the electrochemical properties of Li6PS5Cl membranes, and ultimately influence their application in ASSBs. The electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) measurement has been performed to test the impedance of the prepared Li6PS5Cl membrane and F-POS@LATP-coated Li6PS5Cl membranes with increasing spraying volumes at 32 °C. As illustrated in Figure and Table  (Supporting Information), with the increasing thickness of coating layer, the total resistance slightly increased due to the relatively lower conductivity of coating layer, from 5.32 to 9.95, 11.5, and 14.2 Ω. Accordingly, ASSBs were assembled with LiNbO3-coated LiCoO2(LNO@LCO) cathode, Li4Ti5O12(LTO) anode, and an F-POS@LATP/Li6PS5Cl/F-POS@LATP membrane as SE. The cycling and rate performances of the assembled ASSBs were tested to directly evaluate the electrochemical properties of the modified Li6PS5Cl membrane, as summarized in Table . All cells were tested between 0.8 and 3.0 V. Interestingly, the F-POS@LATP/Li6PS5Cl/F-POS@LATP membrane exhibited comparable electrochemical properties with the bare Li6PS5Cl membrane. Figure  shows the charge and discharge profiles of ASSBs using a bare Li6PS5Cl membrane and F-POS@LATP/Li6PS5Cl/F-POS@LATP membranes with different spraying volumes of 1, 2, and 3 mL in−2, respectively, demonstrating very limited shape change in 80 cycles. The four cells exhibited close reversible discharging capacities of 155.7, 146.1, 149.7, and 146.6 mAh g−1 at the 80th cycle. Moreover, excellent cycling stability of the four cells with little capacity fading was achieved, along with similar initial Coulombic efficiencies of 82.31%, 82.02%, 84.2%, 82.29%, and ≈100% Coulombic efficiencies during cycling (Figure ). It is worth to note that the temperature has a great influence on the ionic conductivity of sulfide SEs, such that slight fluctuations in discharge capacities were observed due to small variations in environmental temperature. Furthermore, the four cells showed similar rate performances, with the capacity retention at 1 C of 83.40%, 87.79%, 87.74%, and 83.10%, respectively (Figure ). To conclude, the cycling and rate performances of the ASSBs using a bare Li6PS5Cl membrane and F-POS@LATP/Li6PS5Cl/F-POS@LATP membranes with different spraying volumes were comparable, which indicates that the superhydrophobic F-POS@LATP protective layer has excellent lithium ion conductivity and can be used directly in ASSBs without sacrificing the electrochemical performances of sulfide SE membranes.

Table 3.
 Summary of electrochemical performances of LTO/Li6PS5Cl membrane/LNO@LCO ASSBs using a bare Li6PS5Cl membrane, and F-POS@LATP/Li6PS5Cl/F-POS@LATP membranes with 1, 2, and 3 mL in−2 of spraying volumes

| Spraying volume | Cycling performance | | Rate performance | | | | | |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  | 1st cycle discharge capacity/highest capacity | 80th cycle discharge capacity | Discharge capacity at 0.1 C | Discharge capacity at 0.2 C | Discharge capacity at 0.5 C | Discharge capacity at 1 C | Discharge capacity at 0.1 C | Rate capability (1 C/0.1 C) |
| 0 | 150.3/158.2 | 155.7 | 144.6 | 141.1 | 129.8 | 120.6 | 140.8 | 83.40% |
| 1 | 148.4/151.9 | 146.1 | 145 | 143.4 | 133.8 | 127.3 | 144.3 | 87.79% |
| 2 | 146.3/150.6 | 149.7 | 142.7 | 138.3 | 133.9 | 125.2 | 138 | 87.74% |
| 3 | 149.8/154.6 | 146.6 | 142.6 | 135.1 | 128.3 | 118.5 | 142.6 | 83.10% |

Figure 6

Cycling and rate performances of LTO/Li6PS5Cl membrane/LNO@LCO ASSBs using a bare Li6PS5Cl membrane and F-POS@LATP/Li6PS5Cl/F-POS@LATP membranes with different spraying volumes. a–c) Charge and discharge profiles of ASSBs using a) a bare Li6PS5Cl membrane and F-POS@LATP/Li6PS5Cl/F-POS@LATP membranes with different spraying volumes of b) 1, c) 2, d) 3 mL in−2, respectively. e) The comparison of long-term cycling performances of the four ASSBs (0.1 C, 1 C = 142 mA g−1). f) The comparison of rate performances of the four ASSBs. All ASSBs were tested in the voltage range of 0.8–3.0 V at 35 ± 3 °C.

### 2.5 Electrochemical Properties of F-POS@LATP/Li6PS5Cl/F-POS@LATP Membranes after Exposure in Extreme Condition

To characterize the tolerance of the superhydrophobic layer to extreme condition, the electrochemical properties of the bare Li6PS5Cl membrane and F-POS@LATP/Li6PS5Cl/F-POS@LATP membranes after exposure in extreme condition were compared. The exposure condition was illustrated in Figure , in which deionized water was directly injected onto Li6PS5Cl membranes in the ambient environment with relative humidity of around 70% at 25 °C. First of all, the changes of ionic conductivities and X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns of these sulfide membranes before and after water exposure were compared (Figures and and Table , Supporting Information). All characteristic diffraction peaks of the bare Li6PS5Cl membrane have completely vanished due to full reaction with water, which should be responsible for the zero-Li+ conductivity of final products. After spraying F-POS@LATP film on Li6PS5Cl membrane with spraying volumes of 1, 2, and 3 mL in−2, the XRD patterns after water exposure exhibit little difference between unexposed Li6PS5Cl membrane, indicating the water blocking effect of protective layers in these thicknesses. Their Nyquist plots displayed only one obvious slope and their total resistances were 12.8, 13.3, and 14.4 Ω, respectively, which were similar to the Li+ conducting behavior of unexposed membranes.

Figure 7

a,b) Photographs of a) F-POS@LATP/Li6PS5Cl/F-POS@LATP membrane (RatioTEOS + PFDTES/LATP= 2:1, spraying volume = 3 mL in−2) and b) bare Li6PS5Cl membrane under, before, and after exposure to extreme condition (water injection). c,d) Charge/discharge profiles of LTO/Li6PS5Cl/LNO@LCO ASSBs using c) F-POS@LATP/Li6PS5Cl/F-POS@LATP membrane (RatioTEOS + PFDTES/LATP= 2:1, spraying volume = 3 mL in−2) and d) bare Li6PS5Cl membrane after exposure to the extreme condition. All cells were tested in the voltage range of 0.8–3.0 V at 35 ± 3 °C, 0.1 C (1 C = 142 mA g−1). e) The comparison of exposure condition of SEs (layers) for sulfide ASSBs reported so far with this work.

To gain more insights into the protection effects of the superhydrophobic layer, the F-POS@LATP-coated Li6PS5Cl membrane (spraying volume = 3 mL in−2) after exposure in extreme condition was directly used for assembly of ASSBs. Significant difference was observed in the appearance of the two exposed Li6PS5Cl membranes (with or without F-POS@LATP coating), along with their electrochemical properties (Figure ). The ASSB using the F-POS@LATP/Li6PS5Cl/F-POS@LATP membrane exhibited a reversible capacity of 147.3 mAh g−1, and a charge/discharge profile almost the same with the ASSB using the unexposed bare Li6PS5Cl membrane. On the contrary, the cell with the exposed bare Li6PS5Cl membrane can no longer work, due to the completely reduced ionic conductivity and damaged structure after water jetting. This demonstrated the superior stability of the F-POS@LATP-coated Li6PS5Cl membrane, contributing to unchanged electrochemical properties of the sulfide ASSB in extreme conditions.

To evaluate the water-stability of F-POS@LATP/Li6PS5Cl/F-POS@LATP membrane in this work, the exposure conditions of SE or SE layers with improved air/moisture/water stability before ASSBs assembly and testing are summarized in Table  (Supporting Information) and Figure . SE or SE layers were not exposed but assembled into ASSBs in inert atmosphere in most works, while exposure conditions are still limited to dry-room environment (<3% relative humidity) so far. In this work, the SE membranes were fully exposed in extreme condition and without further treatment before batteries assembly and testing, exhibiting almost unchanged electrochemical properties, which is far beyond the exposure conditions reported so far for sulfide ASSBs. Moreover, this is the first report about ASSBs using sulfide SE membranes after exposure in extreme conditions, providing a new paradigm for improving air/moisture/water stability of large-area sulfide SE membranes and mass-production of sulfide ASSBs. It is also worth to note that this F-POS@LATP coating layer on Li6PS5Cl membranes is a post-processing method that can be applicable to any sulfide SEs.

3 Conclusion
------------

In conclusion, a new versatile approach to create a superhydrophobic Li-conducting protective layer for sulfide SE membranes is proposed. The optimal ratio of TEOS + PFDTES/LATP was demonstrated to be 2:1, with which the coating layer is superhydrophobic with a water SCA of more than 160°. The LATP nanoparticles build the framework with microscale roughness, providing fast Li+ diffusion pathways. The F-POS acts as chemical binders between LATP nanoparticles and surface modifier of LATP nanoparticles to provide nanoscale roughness as well as low surface energy to repel water. The as-prepared coating layer can help a sulfide membrane withstand extreme exposure condition with water jetting in ambient environment (RH ∼ 70%), and has negligible influence on its electrochemical performances in whole ASSBs that has excellent cycling and rate performances. ASSBs using the extreme-condition-exposed modified Li6PS5Cl membrane exhibited a reversible capacity of 147.3 mAh g−1, comparable with the ASSBs using pristine sulfide membranes. The simple spray coating approach is thus demonstrated to be effective for enabling air-sensitive sulfide membranes to function well in extreme conditions, paving the way for large-area sulfide-based SE membranes and composite electrode membranes for mass production of sulfide ASSBs. Moreover, composite SE membranes were constructed as oxide-SE-coated sulfide membranes in this work, which offers new insights for how to design a composite SE membrane combining the advantages of both sulfide and oxide SEs. Last but not least, it is worth to note that this modification strategy is a post-processing approach that can be applicable to any sulfide SEs and other air/moisture/water unstable materials.

4 Experimental Section
----------------------

#### Preparation of F-POS@LATP Nanoparticles

LATP nanoparticles suspension in ethanol (Tianmu Energy Anode Materials Co., Ltd.) was dispersed in anhydrous ethanol (Innochem, 99.9%), ammonia (Acros, 28–30 wt%), and deionized water under stirring. Subsequently, proper amounts of TEOS (Aladdin, 99.99%) and PFDTES (Alfa, 97%) with a volume ratio of 2:1 based on RatioTEOS + PFDTES/LATPwere slowly added to the mixture with stirring. The reaction was allowed to proceed at room temperature under magnetic stirring. The final suspension was centrifuged at 10 000 rpm for 20 min to get the resultant products, followed by washing with anhydrous ethanol by three times. The F-POS@LATP nanoparticles were then obtained after vacuum-dried treatment at 60 °C for 12 h. The F-POS@LATP nanoparticles, with RatioTEOS + PFDTES /LATPof 0:1 and 1:0, were prepared via the same procedure in the absence of TEOS and PFDTES, and in the absence of LATP, respectively.

#### Preparation of Superhydrophobic F-POS@LATP Coating Layers on Li6PS5Cl Membranes via Spray Coating

Li6PS5Cl powder was prepared by mechanochemical milling of stoichiometric mixture of Li2S (Alfa, 99.9%), P2S5(Macklin, 99%), and LiCl (99.9%, Aladdin) for 20 h, followed by heat-treatment at 550 °C for 5 h in a sealed glass ampoule. The Li6PS5Cl membrane was prepared by mixing Li6PS5Cl powder and polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) with a weight ratio of 99:1. This mixture was then rolled into a thin film with the thickness of 100 µm. To fabricate the superhydrophobic F-POS@LATP coating layers on Li6PS5Cl membranes, 0.08 g of F-POS@LATP nanoparticles were first ultrasonically dispersed into anhydrous n-hexane (Innochem, 99%) for 30 min. Then, proper amount of the above F-POS@LATP dispersion was spray-coated onto the Li6PS5Cl membrane using an airbrush (Mr. HOBBY, PS289) with Ar2at a pressure of 20 psi from a distance of 2–10 cm. The airbrush was moved around to ensure complete and uniform coverage during the spray coating process. The Li6PS5Cl membranes with a superhydrophobic F-POS@LATP coating layer were obtained after a vacuum-dried process at 80 °C for 30 min to remove the residual solvent.

#### Materials Characterization

The SCAs of water droplets (5 µL) onto samples were tested by the automatic contact angle measuring instrument (KRÜSS, DSA30S). The average water SCA with a standard deviation was acquired by testing the same sample at three different locations. The surface morphology and EDS mapping of the samples were characterized by a field-emission SEM with an energy dispersive X-ray detector (HITACHI, SU8100). The samples were sputtered by Cr for 30 s before SEM characterization. XPS (ULVAC-PHI, Inc., PHI 5000 VersaProbe III) with a monochromatic Al Kα radiation was used to analyze the chemical composition of the coating layer on Li6PS5Cl membranes. All the samples were transferred with an air-proof sample holder to avoid air exposure.

#### Fabrication of ASSBs and Electrochemical Performance Measurements

To prepare the composite cathode of ASSBs, LiNbO3-coated LiCoO2via fluid-bed technology (LNO@LCO, Beijing WeLion New Energy Technology Co., Ltd.), Li6PS5Cl SEs, and vapor grown carbon fiber (VGCF, Showa Denko K.K.) were mixed with a weight ratio of 50:45:5 for 30 min. Li4Ti5O12(LTO), Li6PS5Cl SEs, and VGCF were mixed with a weight ratio of 50:40:10 for 30 min to obtain the composite anode powder. The lab-scale ASSBs were fabricated as follows, the Li6PS5Cl membrane was first placed in a mold. Then, 2 mg of mixed cathode powder and 2.5 mg of mixed anode powder were uniformly spread onto each side of the Li6PS5Cl membrane and pressed under a pressure of 580 MPa. The whole process was conducted in an argon-filled glove box. The galvanostatic charge–discharge tests were conducted in a voltage rang of 0.8–3.0 V to measure the electrochemical performances of ASSBs via a battery test system (Land, CT2001A) at 35 ± 3 °C. The rate performances of ASSBs were tested as follows, the cells were charged in the constant current charging mode (0.1 C to 3.0 V). After charging to 3.0 V, the cells were discharged at a constant current from 0.1 C to 1 C.

Conflict of Interest
--------------------

The authors declare no conflict of interest.

